It's actually one of the healthiest
labor markets I've seen in decades.
>> The overall trend is in the right
direction.
>> Well, I have a lot of optimism that
we're going to have a lot of ongoing
demand for human workers.
>> There isn't a lot of heat in the labor
market.
>> We think the labor market will remain
choppy.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hoardern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning to our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Friday, it's payrolls Friday.
Economists are looking for a strong
number despite increasing AI concerns as
Dario Amodei's Anthropic is calling for
an industry-wide pause button. Sam
Altman's OpenAI is reportedly
considering giving up some equity to the
US government.
>> is coming from President Trump wanting
more equity in some of the big tech
companies as increasing political
concern rises about what this is going
to do to the labor market.
Interestingly, President Trump and
Senator Bernie Sanders are on the same
page. Senator Sanders also talking about
how there should be some sort of public
fund in these companies. There is a lot
of concern about why the labor market is
not keeping pace with what we're seeing
right now in the AI space.
>> This used to sound like a pitch for an
IPO.
Our technology is so dangerous, so fast,
so risky, buy our stock. And now it
feels like our technology is so
dangerous, so fast, so risky, regulators
take us over.
They've crossed the line, I think.
They've got to find the balance between
the right message and the wrong message
going into this IPO.
>> And is Dario Amodei really hitting that
when he says, "Please slow down.
Everybody just take a breath." Do we
really need to have a self-correcting
mechanism for AI where suddenly it can
do everything by itself and strip out
the human? We heard from his sister
about the need for some sort of
involvement of humans in artificial
intelligence. The regulatory overhang is
definitely going to be interesting. The
bigger question, especially on labor
market Friday, is whether we see the
economy catch up to where AI is or
potentially AI catch down to where the
economy is in terms of job creation that
we are or aren't seeing.
>> Let's get to the guesses for payrolls
Friday. The jobs number later this
morning at 8:30 Eastern time. The
estimate in our survey 88K. Looking for
unemployment to come in at 4.3% in line
with the previous number from a month or
so ago. The big number we're looking for
125 over at Soft Bank. Some punchy
numbers out there. We'll get into them a
little bit later. So there are the jobs
guesses. Let's talk about some of the
headwinds for the SpaceX IPO. So JP
Morgan's Jamie Dimon pitching this thing
to high net ultra net worth high ultra
high worth clients. At the same time
we're getting some pushback from S&P
about fast tracking some of these mega
IPOs. And headline crossing on Bloomberg
just moments ago that Hong Kong and
China based investors will be frozen out
of this process.
>> There is concern about what it means to
be potentially responsible. I think
these are two different issues with
respect to China and Hong Kong. That
might have more to do with sort of the
isolation of US and Chinese tech. When
it comes to the S&P, this is notable cuz
it's really distinguishing itself from
the Nasdaq that's saying not only are we
going to fast track you into the index
as SpaceX, but we're going to increase
the potential waiting of your shares in
the index. You also see this from the
Russell 2000. The S&P coming out
Standard & Poor's saying, "You know
what? We're going to stick with our
rules. We have the rules for a reason.
You're going to have to wait 12 months
and the waiting is going to have to have
a cap of about 10% of total investment."
And at this point people are saying, "Is
this good? Is this bad? Does this
indicate that there're going to be the
smart ones?" And at what point is
passive management turning into
something active?
>> kind of like it. I kind of like it.
>> Totally.
>> Gold standard for the industry. And
let's save the differences that might
open up between the Nasdaq and the S&P
500 in the next 12 months.
>> It kind of is akin to what we see with
the Nasdaq versus the S&P or the
Nasdaq and the equal weight. There are
questions about what exactly you're
getting exposure to. You raise a
question with China and Hong Kong. Who
will be the ultimate buyers? What's
fascinating to me about SpaceX is how
much it's catering to retail investors.
It's not about the indexes, it's about
the fans of Elon Musk, the fanatical
kind of Reddit crew that are going to be
coming in with about 30% of the shares I
believe potentially sold to these retail
investors. So, they're moving beyond the
typical constructs of Wall Street.
>> Retail in these names might be stronger
hands than institutional for what it's
worth. They're much more committed to
the likes of Tesla and Elon Musk than
maybe the institutional investors have
been.
>> Stark Rubner of Citadel Securities said
retail traders are the new price setters
in this market. At a certain point, how
much is this Elon Musk saying, "Great,
you love me, you believe my story, you
can set my price."
>> Features this morning pulling back by
just 0.4% coming up this hour. We'll
catch up with Jonathan Golub of Seaport
as Wall Street calls on the AI trade.
Pierre Ferragu of New Street Research as
S&P refuses to fast-track mega IPOs and
Prem Misra of JP Morgan on the latest
jobs report. We begin this hour with
stocks struggling to extend a
record-breaking 9-week winning stretch.
Jonathan Golub of Seaport Research
Partners still bullish raising his 2026
S&P target to 8200 writing, "S&P 500
revenue grew 11.5% in the first quarter
while technology drove much of this
upside. Seven out of 11 sectors
delivered double-digit growth." Jonathan
joins us for more. Jonathan, good
morning.
>> Morning.
>> Good to see you. Some cracks in the tech
trade, anything more than that?
>> This this is the the crack that we're
>> in Broadcom, the chips under pressure.
>> this is a company that that's growing at
at an incredible rate and they met
earnings expectations and and the market
was looking for, you know, even more.
Semiconductor
>> some signal from that?
>> No, the semiconductors uh
broadly grew 108%
this quarter versus the quarter before.
I mean, there's is there might be things
to be worried about, but but a crack in
tech right now is not one.
>> a sole something to be worried about,
John, with stocks close to all-time
highs.
>> Uh well, I mean, there's some of the
spending is is, you know, there um the
cash flows on on the hyperscalers are
become um more problematic. So, if you
take a look, the semiconductors are
selling um their chips, and the
companies buying them, so that they're
taking the profit, and the hyperscalers
that are buying them um
they don't take the expense against them
because they depreciate them over a
period of time, and only when their
capex projects are complete. So, there
there's, you know, potentially some of
these hyperscalers are facing more um of
an earnings issue, but even even in
that, it's it's not a broad-based issue.
You're talking about, you know, a half
dozen, you know, stellar companies with
great general business models that that
um perhaps this is um not going to play
out as well for them.
>> We're talking about this delta, though,
between what we're seeing in the
valuations of some of these names and
these companies that are coming to
market, IPOing, to become the fifth
fifth largest company in the world. And
you start to wonder, can you see that
kind of growth without participation, a
broader sense, from the other companies?
I know that they're delivering good
earnings, but it's a pretty spotty group
in terms of how they're delivering
earnings, and you're not seeing the
underlying economy pick up in the way
that you would expect. Do you need to
see some sort of closing of that gap?
>> Well, so so first, you I just let's put
um valuations in perspective. The market
is trading at a at a stock multiple of
around 21, which is not overly elevated.
I mean, it's high, but it's not insanely
high, and people assume that if the
market's going up, stocks must be
getting more expensive. But if the
market's going up because the earnings
are going up faster than the price, then
then you don't have a problem. And in
tech in general, these stocks over the
last, let's say, year-to-date have
gotten cheaper as they're soaring
because the earnings are so good. Now,
it it's we'll We'll what happens with,
you know, if people are talking about
space as as an example and who's going
to own it. Um if if you take um you
know, if you take a look at some of
these companies that are held in retail
hands like that you were saying, some of
those companies trade at really high
multiples, but those aren't the
companies that are driving the market.
And even
um Tesla, it's not a big It's not a
company with a ton of earnings. It's a
company with a lot of market cap.
>> I guess another way of framing this is
you can justify a lot of the moves and
you can see the revenues in a lot of the
big tech companies so far. You take a
look at SpaceX and some of the
projections. They're going to be getting
revenues from Mars. They're going to be
getting revenue A lot of the revenue is
going to come from some of the data
centers that are in space. They're going
to be creating a whole new reality that
people are getting very excited about.
And Elon Musk is a wonderful dreamer and
visionary in many, many ways. But does
that introduce a new risk when you start
to value some of these things at 100
times over the next couple of years when
you aren't necessarily seeing the
revenues now at all?
>> No, I mean they're going to be part of
the They're going to be part of this
ecosystem. I mean, right now it's it's
it's the hot headline. But if you look
at where, you know, what their earnings
are in in the stack of companies in the
S&P 500, they're not going to They're
not going to move the dynamic. The
market is strong because the economy is
is is strong overall. Like Jonathan was
saying before,
um every sector in the S&P is growing
earnings. Seven or eight out of the 10
of them are growing them double digits.
And semiconductors are growing their
earnings at 50%. And so any name coming
into the market, I think is going to
have a hard time upsetting that so.
>> I know what you're getting at. I totally
know what you're getting at. Some of the
projections for the total total
addressable market here are like
sky-high. And I'll say this up front,
the failure to imagine
if this was the 1990s, I've said this
before about Amazon, I'd be sitting here
asking the same question. Why would a
book seller be worth so much money? I
wouldn't have had the imagination to
think about what Amazon could have been.
At the same time in this moment, it just
feels like that certain institutions are
very incentivized at the moment to make
sure these IPOs get away in the next 12
months.
>> The addressable market, the idea that
artificial intelligence is a $27
trillion addressable market. Some of
these market shares are pretty massive.
And to your point about who is
representing some of these, some of the
investor comment was, you know, we're
concerned, but we see that there's some
really respected investors out there who
are believe in this. So, that's actually
supporting our belief in this. I
understand what Jonathan's saying, that,
you know, one name isn't going to change
the difference. But you just wonder,
either the addressable market is not
that and this is a fiction or the rest
of the market is not changing its
pricing and changing its expectation for
growth quickly enough.
>> Something we focused on this week is
constraints.
Whether we'd hit energy constraints,
whether companies would hit budget
constraints and they'd have to cut back
on spending on this thing, whether the
market would start to push back and we'd
meet capital constraints. What kind of
constraints are you and the team
thinking about that are potentially on
the horizon?
>> So,
you know,
companies are raising debt to do a lot
of And I'm not talking about space, but
like the like this this infrastructure,
the build-out, the cap the cap ex. And
there's this general belief that the AI
build-out is not economically sensitive.
And if as long as the economy is fine,
whether it's a little stronger or
weaker, it's not going to make any
difference. Companies are going to be
committed. But if we hit a a real
economic slow patch, if we hit a
recession, and right now the odds of a
recession on if you look at your
Bloomberg terminal are falling. So, it's
not a big risk, but companies would, if
they have a choice between ultimately
holding on to staff or cutting cap ex, I
will tell you they're going to hold on
to staff and they're going to pull back
on cap ex. I'm not saying that we're
we're anywhere near that, but but we do
live in an economic world where
economics matter and there are enormous
cap ex investments on these.
>> That of course depends on the ROI of the
cap ex. Because if it's the other way
around, you could see something much
more dramatic where they carry on
investing in cap ex and they start
cutting operational expenses elsewhere.
>> Yeah, I I I don't I don't I don't think
it's it's that way. I I ultimately, what
when if if you're financing data centers
with with borrowed money and and some of
this is,
if the cost of capital goes up, if
credit spreads widen because there's a
concern that I'm making a 10 or 15-year
investment that I I may not get paid
back on. If there's concerns on that or
if the credit markets dry up, this will
prove to be more cyclical than it feels
right now. Listen,
and and you know me for a long time. I'm
really bullish on on this. Allison and I
were talking before about how we change
our daily workflows to take advantage of
these so we can all do our jobs better.
I'm not seeing companies firing workers
as a related as as much as I'm seeing
people saying is right now we need to
invest in this to figure out how we're
going to
do things we couldn't even have imagined
before. And you know, so maybe there'll
be cutbacks later on, but right now this
is a big buildout.
>> Jonathan, it's good to see you. It
always is. Thank you, buddy. Jonathan
Golub of RBC Capital Research Partners.
Not seeing it in the data right now, but
looking for a jobs number of 80 to 90k
at 8:30 Eastern time.
>> You've very rarely seen the unemployment
rate fall below the rate of inflation.
This was a point that Michael Hartnett
with Bank of America was making. There
have been a couple of inflection points.
They all portend some sort of financial
reckoning because it ultimately
indicates that either inflation's going
to be hotter or that the central bank is
getting behind. And that I think is the
logical
uh sort of progression of where that
conversation's going to go.
>> Unemployment close to four, inflation
close to four. This Fed nowhere near to
hiking interest rates just yet. Equity
features right now in the S&P pulling
back just a touch. Let's get you an
update on stories worldwide this morning
with your Bloomberg Brief. Yahaira
Hasmar. Hi, Yahaira.
>> Hi, John.
The US and Iran are showing little signs
of progress in ceasefire talks.
President Trump says negotiators are in
the final stages, but Iran's foreign
minister says there's been no tangible
progress. The president says time is on
his side.
Meanwhile, SpaceX will not be be joining
the S&P 500 anytime soon. S&P Dow Jones
indices saying it's not planning to
shorten the 12-month waiting period for
newly public companies. It also says it
won't waive its existing requirements
for profitability and public floats even
for large companies like SpaceX.
And Anthropic is urging AI labs to
consider slowing development. The
company is warning that systems are
advancing so quickly they may soon be
able to improve themselves without human
oversight confirming our biggest fears.
That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Yohai, thank you. Good luck getting
everyone to sign up to that. We'll
discuss that a little bit later this
hour. Up next on the program, I invest
my heart in it and my soul because I
want the country to be strong. And yeah,
there will be other
cases that I have that opportunity
again, I would do that. And then, you
know, you do have stupid people say,
"Oh, that's a shame." But it's not a
shame. It's called business. We'll talk
about the next business move with
Bloomberg's Mike Shepherd down in
Washington, D.C. live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
Jobs number just around the corner later
on this morning. The estimate we're
looking at in our survey here at
Bloomberg, 88K. The previous number 115.
Some pretty pretty big projections out
there on Wall Street. SocGen at 125,
HSBC at 110, Bank of America around 95K.
Citi sticking with their rate cut call
for later this year. Citi looking for
60,000.
>> They're not alone. Actually, if you take
a look at surveys of economists across
Wall Street, they see a greater
likelihood that the unemployment rate's
going to go to 4.4% by the end of the
year than 4.2%. I can't even believe the
numbers that we're talking about and
then sort of differentials. I mean these
are all fairly low unemployment rates
especially given everything else that
we're seeing. Nonetheless, I actually
don't know how to interpret the headline
numbers. Like I don't know what those
numbers mean because I don't know what
the break-even rate actually is and I
don't know how much it's going to get
revised. That's why I'm watching wages.
That's why I'm watching the unemployment
rate.
>> Break-even close it to zero that might
be a hundred so number like that is
pretty decent but I'm right there with
you. If you want to measure slack, how
tight is the labor market, how loose is
the labor market, unemployment wages.
Unit labor cost yesterday this week a
big big data point. I know for the first
quarter and somewhat backward looking
but that might ease the nerves of the
committee on the Federal Reserve in the
next couple of weeks.
>> is is that the data has been all over
the place, right? You haven't gotten a
clean read at all. Yesterday we got the
NFIB survey showing that US small
businesses aren't hiring and aren't
planning to hire that actually that fell
to a six-year low in terms of their
plans to hire or trying to fill a job
versus the JOLTS number that showed that
job openings were booming. Try to square
that circle. I was having trouble with
it. So you look at any of the data
points. Even the ISM services. You look
at the headline number. Oh wow, we're
doing great. You look at the employment
number. Wait a second. Hold on. Same
with manufacturing. So again, very
confusing to really understand what's
going on here.
>> Stocks are close to record highs.
Alphabet just upsides its equity capital
raised to 85 billion. We're going to see
three of the biggest IPOs we've ever
seen.
After we've priced 1 trillion dollars of
IG debt in this country in near record
time and the Fed has an easing bias with
inflation close to four and unemployment
close to four. That's what they confront
at that next meeting. Futures this
morning positive or rather negative by
0.4% on the S&P. We're down by 0.9 on
the Nasdaq. Used to saying positive.
We've had a nine-week winning run on the
S&P 500 as things stand coming into this
morning. As of the close yesterday,
still positive on the week. Just just
including this we pull back but you make
it week 10 and you're going back to the
1980s for a weekly streak that long.
Under Savannah's this morning, I got
stake in AI.
>> I invest my heart in it and my soul
because I want the country to be strong.
I just made $10 billion or $11 billion
for the United States of America.
And yeah, there will be other cases. If
I have that opportunity again, I would
do that. And then, you know, you do have
stupid people say, "Oh, that's a shame."
It's not a shame. It's called business.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Senior US officials reportedly talking
with major AI companies about acquiring
shares. According to reports, the OpenAI
CEO, Sam Altman, spoke about the idea
with members of the Trump
administration. Bloomberg's Mike
Shepherd joins us now for more. Shep,
welcome to the program, sir. I believe
this report came from notice. Can you
walk us through the content of that
report, whether those conversations are
active and ongoing?
>> Yeah, I think you hit on the really key
question there is how recent these
conversations are. And then, how active
they are and how advanced they are. And
it's unclear that they have actually
uh reached that stage of any kind of
seriousness yet. But, as we've heard the
president say over the past year, he
really does have an interest in having
that kind of government hand and role in
certain industries that are critical to
the US. And there's none at the moment
more uh essential than artificial
intelligence. It's really reaching
across the economy, and it's uh putting
strains in different sectors, including
energy, too. So, having the government
take stakes in AI companies from his
standpoint certainly would make sense.
But, it is also an idea that has been
pushed and embraced by Sam Altman
himself. His vision, though, may be a
little bit different than what the
president and his advisers have in mind
in terms of taking those stakes. Sam
Altman has proposed in the past and did
so in a blog post in April uh this idea
of a public wealth fund. And that would
be where companies put some of their
stock into what would be essentially a
sovereign wealth fund that would then in
turn return some of the gains from AI to
the public in some fashion, perhaps
through direct distributed payments. But
John, this also comes with some risks.
We've seen AI drive this historic stock
rally we've been talking about, the
nearly 10-week streak you just
mentioned, but it also does carry some
risks. If the boom does fizzle out, does
the government get left holding the bag?
And of course, the government would face
this conflicted position, John, of
having to regulate an industry that it
actually owns a physical stake in.
>> we should be careful with language here.
This is not about buying stakes, it's
about taking stakes, and it's about
OpenAI giving up equity. And last time I
checked, that company's not a charity
anymore, Sam. So if they're thinking
about seeding equity to the US
government, do they see the writing on
the wall? Do they have visibility of
what will happen if they don't do this?
>> I don't think that they are sensing any
sort of pressure necessarily from the
administration to do so, that there
could be some consequence if they don't.
In a way, Sam Altman does approach this
from this long-standing public benefit
view. He is very much into the idea of
this public-private collaboration,
especially when it comes to artificial
intelligence. And interestingly, earlier
this week, not only did he meet with
officials at the White House, nobody
really senior like Trump or Susie Wiles
is our understanding, but he also did
meet with Senator Bernie Sanders, who
has a proposal very much like this. He
unveiled it in a New York Times op-ed at
the beginning of the week. His vision is
to not only take 50% stakes in these big
AI companies, but also to impose a
one-time tax on their stock. Take all
that money, take all those proceeds from
the tax and put it into a sovereign
wealth fund again to redistribute the
benefits to the public. Now, the catch
is that this proposal from Sanders is
unlikely to go anywhere, but it
nonetheless this talking point, and it
indicates that there is some energy and
interest around this idea.
>> It's a starting gun for a bigger
conversation, that's for sure. Mike,
thank you, sir. Shep down in Washington,
D.C. Jonathan Gollub of Seaport Research
Partners still with us. John, I'm sure
you've given this thought. The
regulatory and tax risk that might be on
the horizon for for these companies.
>> Well, first of all, the taxpayer
benefits from this in that when people
have capital gains,
there's taxes that are levied and it
benefits and it benefits society. If
people are employed in these things, it
benefits society. If we're more
efficient in running the US economy,
we're more competitive versus the rest
of the world, it benefits uh it benefits
the economy. The government taking
direct stakes in companies is just it's
just a bad idea, and I think the point
that was made before about the
government being the regulator and at
the same time being an owner,
they by by going and taking stake in one
company versus another, they're choosing
a winner. They're making an endorsement.
What Sam Altman is saying is, you know,
just just the language as it was on the
screen cuz I haven't analyzed it, is
choose me. You know, like you know, how
does the government then how does if the
market goes against the government's
investment, do they then go and act
differently because of that? Is that how
we innovate? Is that what American
capitalism looks like? And and I think
the answer should be no.
>> Well, just in that same vein, how did
you interpret what we heard from
Anthropic's Amodei overnight saying that
he thinks everyone should just press
pause, really slow down cuz things are
getting a little scary. Is it him
actually saying things are scary or him
trying to say, "Can you please make our
moat a little bit bigger so we can
retain this gain for a much longer
period of time?"
>> Well, you know, there's going to be
pressure to regulate to regulate these
activities, and there's going to be
involvement. So, I I think to to assume
that this is going to remain entirely
unregulated with no oversight from
anyone is you know, is unrealistic. What
I've seen in you know, what industries
do is is they hopefully they
self-regulate. There's an American
Medical Association. There's a CFA
Society. Part of what they do is say,
"We will oversee some of what's going on
in our world and we will make Washington
and others more comfortable that there
are standards." And so, I you know, I
don't know what it You know, I'm seeing
a skeptical look at this, but here's the
thing. One way or another, there's going
to be you know, there's going to be
involvement on this and what you don't
want to do is kill what's what's really
a you know, something which is
unbelievable innovation which can really
benefit all of us.
>> John, it's good to see you. It always
says, "Don't kill the patient." Jonathan
Golub there of Seaport Research
Partners. That's what would regulate
some companies, right? But but these
companies they're talking about taking
over white-collar jobs. In fact, they've
been emphatic with some of those
statements, particularly over at
Anthropic. They're almost begging to be
regulated and taken over by the
government. I think it's interesting he
said a button. A button. Not a pause,
but a pause button. So, we're not there
yet, but we might be.
>> Yeah.
>> And that's the risk.
>> We haven't gotten to the point where
actually some of this stuff is full
sci-fi. We haven't gone full sci-fi,
full R2-D2, but you know, we're getting
there and they want to keep it in a box.
How do you do that though with
competition around the globe? How do you
do that with disparate types of players?
And that I think is the real challenge
in this time around.
>> China to sign up. You nice
>> Exactly.
>> Good luck. Coming up on the program,
Pierre Ferragu of New Street Research as
the S&P says it won't fast-track IPOs.
Futures negative here on the S&P 500
negative by 0.4% on the S&P. We're down
across the board. We're down by 0.8 on
the Nasdaq as of the close yesterday.
Still advancing on the week just by
about a tenth of 1% heading towards a
10-week winning streak. Based on the
price action this morning, we could snap
the 9-day 9-week winning run we're on so
far on the Nasdaq down by 0.8. In the
bond market, Treasury's getting
interesting. The data has been decent
through the week. Two's is still around
4%, 10's around 450. To Lisa's point a
little bit earlier this morning, got
this strange dynamic at the moment where
unemployment is close to four,
inflation is close to four, and the Fed
meets in about 2 weeks time and they
still retain an easing bias. Now, most
people assume that easing bias will go
away, and then it's up to Kevin Warsh to
communicate what he wants to communicate
in the news conference.
>> At the same time, most people on Wall
Street still think the next move is
going to be a cut, not a hike, even
though you do see hiking expectations
baked into the Fed funds futures. When
you talk to individuals, my anecdotal
experience has been most of them still
think that there's going to be some sort
of rate cut in the not-so-distant
future. The interesting conversation is,
is this
central bank actually restrictive?
Because right now, everything about
capital markets is screaming something
to the contrary.
>> Based on what we've seen in capital
markets, based on the money being raised
by the richest companies on the planet,
it's difficult to say
that monetary policy is restrictive at
the moment. As we count you down the up
and about, 3 hours away, let's get you
some single names, some morning movers.
Yohara has more. Hi, Yohara.
>> Hi, John. We start with the massive
mover to the downside, and that is
Lululemon falling a 12 and 1/2% in the
premarket after it cut its full-year
outlook, pointing to worsening trends
across North America. And management is
saying that over the past few weeks it's
seen fewer customers coming into stores,
all tied to that controversy around
see-through leggings. So, that's not
helping as it faces growing competition
from the likes of Vuori and Alo, just
underscoring the challenges that Holly
O'Neill faces when she takes the helm in
September. Uh meanwhile, the AI chip
trade is faltering again this morning,
still feeling the effects after Broadcom
disappointed. So, you're seeing names
like Nvidia, Intel, and Micron all
falling in the premarket. And the move
in Micron is notable since it just
scored a major win. Nvidia CEO Jensen
Huang saying that it was one of the
companies uh approved to supply the
advanced memory chips for its Rubin AI
system and yet shares are down 2 and
1/2%. And we end on Quantinuum. This is
a quantum computing stock that just went
public yesterday on the Nasdaq. Shares
initially rose some 13% when it began
trading, lost nearly all those gains
into the close. Now it's weaker again,
down 3.4% just speaking to the sour mood
we're seeing around tech this morning.
>> Yeah, Hadar, thank you. Thank you for
the update. Lululemon top 10 for 2026,
one of the biggest losing stocks of the
year so far, down 40% coming into this
morning and getting hammered once again.
>> Downgrading their expectation for the
full year look ahead, talking about how
the outperformance is coming from China
of all places in terms of their sales,
and talking about having to mark down
some of their current inventory to clear
it out to make way for the future.
>> Feels like a kitchen sink from that
company this morning, that's for sure.
On our radar this morning, ceasefire
talks between the US and Iran grinding
to a halt. The president saying
discussions are in the final stages
while Tehran maintains that negotiations
have stalled following the worst
violence in weeks. Elsewhere, Nvidia
tapping the world's three biggest memory
chip makers to supply products for its
AI accelerators. The company certifying
Samsung, Micron, and SK Hynix for its
next generation of GPUs.
>> All three vendors have been qualified.
All three vendors are in production. And
um
uh they're all racing they're racing all
to uh support Vera Rubin.
>> Deliveries for the Vera Rubin platform
on track to begin in the third quarter.
And finally, Anthropic calling for an
industry-wide pause button for AI
development. The company warning it
could begin to improve itself and build
its own successors, and that a pause
would ensure certain labs don't secretly
keep working to advance the technology.
>> The fear here is that potentially
artificial intelligence large language
models could become self-correcting and
self-generating. So you kind of take the
human out and they improve upon
themselves and this is where you get to
true sci-fi that I grew up on and then
got me very anxious-ridden, which is the
reason why potentially they're warning
it. If you're skeptical, you could say
they're trying to create a moat around
what they're doing and potentially slow
some of their competitors. Problem is
you're not going to really slow places
like China where it's all guns a
blazing, let's go, let's see how far we
can push this thing. But highlights how
we don't know the future, we don't know
the iterations of what this is going to
get to and it highlights the concern
among regulators as well as in the
founders of some of these companies
because they aren't sure what that
backlash is going to look like.
>> This is the approach from Anthropic.
They talk about big things like cutting
white-collar work in half in the next
several years or whatever the latest
forecast is.
The risks are real.
I sort of appreciate that you do too.
Most people do as well. I've always
found that this was like bidding up the
stock going into the IPO roadshow,
bidding up the valuation of the company.
You're talking about building a moat
around the company to secure its
leadership position at the moment. The
risk that they run is that they're
regulated in a way they do not want to
be regulated. Washington D.C. moves in
very blunt ways. They're not going to
come up with a regulation in the way
these guys want it to be. Will it be
corporate taxes? They're just going to
ramp that up. The Bernie Sanders
position feels very extreme this
morning. Might not in 12 months, might
not in 24 months. Let's see how these
elections go and how this is discussed
in the elections, not just in the
midterms but the general on the horizon.
>> It's increasingly a political talking
point. That is for sure and we can't
know exactly how the conversation will
evolve. What's notable is when you talk
to investors about this possibility, how
do you prepare for regulatory pushback?
Does that make you concerned? Does that
reduce your valuations? You know what
they say? That increases our valuations
of these companies because what it means
is the winners of the past will be the
winners of the future because it will
slow down innovation and potential
competition. So, to the degree that
people look at this as a negative for
these shares, yes, they might have to
pay bigger taxes. They also might be the
only game in town or one of the biggest
and best in in town just because it
prevents innovation in other ways. So,
the market implication is kind of
counterintuitive potentially.
>> taxes just keep going up. Capital gains
just keep going up.
>> You're
You're in a place this morning. I can
tell where you're going with
>> Society's not going to sit this out and
let this rip. That's the point I'm
making. And I would suggest that you
look at the ports, not just in the
United States, but look at the ports in
Europe. Look at the control that unions
have over these places. Look at the lack
of technological development that we've
seen that we've had for decades. Look at
the trains. The trains could be driven
on their own, yet we're still paying
people 100 200 thousand dollars to drive
these things. Why?
Because we're focused on employment and
the unions have a hold over Washington
D.C. I struggle to believe that they're
just going to let this technology rip in
the way that some of these guys are
talking about.
>> And should they? I mean, ultimately or
should there be some sort of offset akin
to what a lot of people said was the
problem when there was globalization
that left an entire blue-collar
generation behind without jobs and
without purpose. You know, should there
be a real rethink of this? The
difficulty is we don't understand what
the ultimate goal is. And I keep going
back to Pete Shers point with with the
buggy whip, right? The idea that with
the horse and cut horse and buggy when
it came out, did it does it do what
automobiles did to the human or
automobiles did to the horse, which was
rendered irrelevant and the population
has dropped quite a bit, although
they're treated very well. Are we going
to be the treated very well horses or we
going to be the human that's being
facilitated by the car? We just don't
know.
>> Horses don't get to vote. People do. And
it's the political swing that you might
see off the back of this
that I think is the one to watch.
>> This is like full animal farm this
morning. Welcome.
>> I'm not Let's talk about SpaceX. A
setback potentially as Elon Musk begins
the company's road show. S&P Global
keeping its eligibility requirements for
joining the index, denying SpaceX and
other mega IPOs from a fast track.
Bloomberg's Mandip Singh joins us now
for more. Mandip, welcome to the
program. This is a different approach
than we saw from say Nasdaq. How much of
a setback is this for that stock?
>> I mean, look, they have a very thin
float. So, from that perspective, you
know, there will probably be more demand
than the supply of the stock, but
they're looking to raise 75 billion and
that's a big amount and contingent on
that 75 billion is that Cursor
acquisition that they have to close in
the first 30 days post-IPO.
And if that doesn't happen, you know,
suddenly it may not look very attractive
from an investment perspective. So, that
Cursor acquisition is very important for
SpaceX and that index piece was key for
ETFs to, you know, include SpaceX in all
of their holdings and I I would say
there's definitely a setback here, but
it'll be interesting to see how that 10%
float weighs in when it comes to the
demand for the stock.
>> Mandeep, given the size of the float
relative to the size of the potential
market cap and the potential to go into
an index quickly and have all that
passive money forced into it, how noisy
could the first few days have been if
S&P had thought about fast-tracking this
IPO?
>> I mean, they can't afford, you know, any
let-ups here because of that Cursor deal
and they may have to end up paying a
termination fee of 10 billion dollars.
So, from that perspective, the capital
raise, the liquidity event is to
facilitate that Cursor deal and yes,
there's that CapEx aspect around, you
know, building more compute, but to me
the Cursor deal is very paramount when
it comes to the future prospects of
SpaceX and meeting those growth
expectations that investors have.
>> Mandeep, so it's great to catch up.
Thank you, sir. Mandeep Singh
of Bloomberg breaking this one down.
Lisa was talking about it a little bit
earlier, just how much of a setback this
might be. I'm going to be really
interesting to see the performance of
the Nasdaq versus the S&P because
obviously we've seen outperformance of
the Nasdaq because tech is absolutely
absolutely ripped and we've got this
bigger weighting on the Nasdaq 100, but
how that looks like with SpaceX
inclusion in one and SpaceX exclusion in
the other, at least for the first 12
months, could be interesting.
>> Yeah, concentration has been a feature,
not a bug on the way up. Does it become
a bug, not a feature on the way down
potentially, especially if you have some
of the more speculative IPOs? I'm not
saying it's speculative, but typically
an IPO this big hasn't performed as
well. People point to Meta back when it
IPO'd, the years after that did not
exactly It would cast a fantastic light
on it. So,
does this end up being a liability or
does this end up being a boom?
>> Let's talk about Elon Musk looking to
justify SpaceX's $1.8 trillion
valuation to potential investors,
discussing the V3 satellite program, and
the company's plans for space-based data
centers.
>> It's really just solar power plus
radiator,
um
some
basic equipment for operating the
satellite, and and then the laser links,
which would connect to the Starlink
communications constellation, and
and then back and then to the ground.
And it would The connection would happen
no matter what the weather is.
>> Pierre Ferragu of New Street Research
writing the forecast, "The consortium is
discussing with investors is very
aggressive, but would largely justify
the IPO price." Pierre trying to staff
for more. Pierre, welcome to the
program. How big is the total
addressable market, and how on earth
do you really push back against someone
else's imagination?
>> Right, it's a good question. I like to
to think about space as being
an addressable market on the growth of
the global uh of the global economy. And
um in a world in which the economy is
$100 trillion, that's $200 trillion of
revenues for uh
global enterprises if they grow uh you
know, single digits uh every year, you
actually compound the trillions very
rapidly. The addressable market we see
in 2045, so 15 years from now, is
actually um $16 trillion and dominated
by telecom, data centers, and of course
defense, that is going to be very
very large in space. And to that, of
course, you need to add the opportunity
for SpaceX of becoming like a
significant player in AI in generative
AI with xAI.
>> Pierre, do you see any signs that
they're actually gaining inroads on the
AI side of the world given the fact that
so far that is a de minimus portion of
the overall revenues coming from the
pool behind SpaceX?
>> That's a very good question.
xAI is very clearly a challenger in like
the front-tier AI league, but they are
part of their league. They They have one
of the best models, not the best,
definitely not yet,
but they have one of the best models.
And they are the best at deploying very
rapidly very large-scale data centers.
They have the largest coherent cluster
in the world today. So,
they can train like the best possible
models. And then if you think about like
usage
adoption, I think the key here is
actually the acquisition of Cursor.
Cursor is doing an incredible job
building up like
recurring revenues.
They're adding
in excess of a billion dollars of
revenues every every 3 months. So,
they're taking like a fair share, you
know, we estimate like 15 to 20% of the
coding opportunity for AI. So, that's
the opportunity for X to become also
significant in terms of capturing the
revenue opportunity
in the next 30 days because this
acquisition is supposed to close 30 days
after
after after the IPO.
>> Pierre, a lot of people have talked
about the promise of Elon Musk. We heard
from Dan Ives here essentially buying
into Dan, you're buying a piece of Elon
Musk. On the other hand, you haven't
seen Elon Musk capable of holding onto
some of the AI-related talent in
particular. There is this war for
talent. You have seen a number of pretty
high-profile departures. How big of a
concern is that for you?
>> Yeah, it's it's always difficult to see
key talents like the top 10 founders of
xAI have left the company.
Now, remember, Lisa, like over the last
10 years, Um, this is the way Musk
operates at Tesla as well. You've had
like an incredibly fast churn of top
talent.
Uh, and and and that's the way uh, he
has been operating for years. So, on one
hand, in absolute terms, um, always not
a very good thing to see a talent
leaving
uh, a company. On the other side, uh,
the track record that we have Elon Musk
on running extremely successful
organizations
uh, with that very high level of churn
um, is reassuring.
>> Uh, is your BS radar up this morning
when you hear these proclamations coming
from the likes of Anthropic? When you
see stuff like OpenAI seeding equity
control or at least seeding some equity
to the government having conversations
about it according to one report. I've
got no idea how much weight to put on
that report. But Pierre, I just wonder
what are these companies up to ahead of
these major IPOs over the next few
months?
>> Yeah.
It's like
I like the the idea of the the BS
indicator.
Um, I would say
two things. On the one hand, I think
there is a topic
AI that gets self-improving
uh, is potentially the AI that gets out
of control. Now, um, let's face it, the
claim that um, we could, you know, stop
development or take a pause or whatever
at at a global level um, is completely
um,
uh, impossible to implement. What
authority could
uh, could do that? And I think more
important than
worrying about self-improving models,
one of the competitors is raising $75
billion in in the market today. And and
that and that competitor is SpaceX.
And owning data centers is going to be
critical. Um, so the other two players,
Anthropic and OpenAI, are very, very
keen to raise similar amount of money.
And as they are larger today, they need
to raise even more money in order to be
able to continue to to to um, to spend
on compute. And I guess the these goals
help, you know, create the buzz for
their IPOs. Of course, there is an
element of that. There is probably like
a a genuine concern there, even if it's
not it's difficult to see how they could
they could handle it.
And then last but not least, it's a it's
a
it's maybe maybe a way to just like
signal and try to slow down the pace to
give it more time to to continue to
strengthen their balance sheet and raise
more money.
>> Yeah, it's good to see it. Yeah, I
thought of New Street Research from
almost point entirely at the end there.
>> At this point, you got to think how much
is that is this them trying to create a
motor on themselves when they see some
of the competitors gaining clout very
quickly and raising huge sums of money
to really
plow into their market share bit.
>> As Vlad said it earlier this week, the
race for capital certainly feels that
way at the moment. Let's give you an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief, Yohara has more. Hi,
Yohara.
>> Hi, John.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky
proposing peace talks with Russian
President Peter Vladimir Putin in an
open letter. Zelensky saying Ukraine is
ready for a full ceasefire during
negotiations. President welcoming the
initiative.
Meanwhile, the Trump administration is
exploring whether the government should
take ownership stakes in leading AI
companies like OpenAI. Senior US
officials reportedly held talks with
major AI companies about potentially
transferring shares to the government
voluntarily.
And President Donald Trump will be the
first sitting US president to attend an
NBA Finals game. Trump confirmed
yesterday that he'll head to Madison
Square Garden Monday night to watch the
Knicks play game three against the
Spurs.
>> I've been a Knicks fan for a long time
and I'm also a Jim Dolan fan. He's a
nice guy. He's a competitive guy and
he's got a team that's amazing. The
answer is yes, he's invited me. I'm
going.
>> Which game have you decided, sir?
>> Say it.
>> Game three, game four. Are you excited
for this?
>> Could be Monday.
>> New York City Mayor Eric Adams is also
planning to be at the game. That's your
Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Got to fit in that being different
seats,
different tiers.
>> Yeah, I imagine that. So, I'm I'm dying
to be in the nosebleeds, and Donald
Trump will be on the court side.
>> Although in New York, the nosebleeds are
still expensive.
>> Uh you know, all I can say is
>> $5,000, $6,000 getting
>> If you were worried about security and
the shutdown of the city, well, this is
going to be one exciting time for
traffic.
>> The wealth in this city is just
ridiculous. Yohay, thank you. Up next on
the program, employment holding steady.
>> The economy is
very strong. Job growth is strong.
Except for April, we have seen real wage
growth every month. Every month since
President Trump took office.
>> Up next, we catch up with Priya Misra of
JP Morgan.
Live from New York City, welcome to the
program. Under Savannah's this morning,
employment holding steady.
>> The economy is
very strong. Job growth is strong.
Except for April, we have seen real wage
growth every month. Every month since
President Trump took office, we are
creating jobs. And importantly,
Congressman, these are jobs for
Americans.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
May payrolls report you're adding just
under 2 hours time. Bloomberg economists
expecting solid growth and the
unemployment rate to hold steady. Priya
Misra of JP Morgan writes, "The job
market has stabilized, but it's not a
source of inflationary pressures." Priya
joins us now for more. Priya, good
morning.
>> Morning.
>> How relevant is this jobs report this
morning to this market?
>> Oh, it's extremely relevant. Um because
here's what's happening. I think the
last few months we've had data that
suggested the weakness in the job market
late last year, I think we can sort of
look through that. You know, the the the
market's stabilized. Are we at the point
where we may be, you know, accelerating?
Now, I think that headline number is
very hard to read because we really
don't know what break even is. You know,
we're dealing with an oil supply shock,
we're dealing with an immigration supply
shock. But let's look at wages. Let's
look at, you know, under the hood, is
this broadening out? Is the job market
broadening out? So far, I would argue
that it's all very much a healthcare and
education. We're all getting older, some
getting older at a faster rate, I would
argue, like me. But, I think, you know,
if it is a secular, you know, increase
in employment, then that doesn't suggest
to me a
that that is a source of inflationary
pressure. If it's broadening out, if it
is services, if it's manufacturing, if
wages start to pick up, then that will
tell me that maybe monetary policy is
actually accommodative or at neutral. I
think this is why the market now, the
rates market, which has all been oil
driven, I think the rates market is sort
of sniffing out is monetary policy
actually accommodative. And if it is,
then the Fed has to hike and, you know,
they don't just hike once, they hike a
a a
>> Doesn't the market say it is
accommodative?
>> I think, well, depends on what market
you look at. If you're looking
>> Financial markets.
>> So, I fair, but is it financial market
driven by AI? I mean, is AI interest
sensitive? I would argue AI is not
really interest sensitive. It's this
transformational technological rise in
productivity, which with the with the
Fed hiking a few times actually change
that, so it's not clear. I look at
interest sensitive sectors, I look at
housing, I look at consumer durables. I
don't see the heat there. So, which is
why I think the Fed is likely to stay on
hold. I don't want to think that the
Fed's about to start hiking, but we're
going to be looking for any signs that
GDP, consumer spending, is that
broadening out beyond just AI and the
upper part of the K? And I think the
jobs market is the best high frequency
measure of that.
>> Michael Hartnett of Bank of America, I
keep thinking about the note. He had a
couple of really interesting points
about the correlation between the
unemployment rate and CPI and how we're
entering an unusual correlation, but he
also said we're seeing a wealth boom
effect, not necessarily a wage price
spiral, but a wealth price spiral, where
you're seeing everyone's stocks go up
and up and up and up. And then the
wealthiest part of the K can keep
spending and spending and spending and
increasing the prices that they spend
for things cuz they feel very wealthy.
Is that a transmission mechanism of
inflation that you have to take into
consideration?
>> So, I think if the cyclical components
of CPI start to rise, if wages start to
rise, then I think you have to take that
into account. And this is why the Fed is
sounding Look at all the Fed speak in
the you know, whether it's a dove or a
hawk, they're all saying, "Well,
inflation's above our target. We want to
be extremely mindful of inflation
expectations, wages." You know, I hear
the wealth effect argument, but you
know, is does that result in inflation
trickle-down effect? Do you see rents
picking up? We're not seeing that. Do
you see other services picking up? This
is very different from 2022, where you
actually did see that trickle-down. But
I would argue in 2022, we had or 21, we
had a supply shock with COVID, but you
also had a demand shock. There was all
that revenge travel. There was the fact
that the savings rate was much higher.
Consumers had that buffer of savings.
Look at the savings rate. It's
continuing to decline.
>> On the margins, are you more concerned
about a reacceleration or a slowdown?
>> I'm more worried about a slowdown. Um
and here's why I mean, not slowdown into
recession,
but if the straight of homos doesn't
open, we really need that to open. We
need oil prices to come down. There's a
real income shock that the lower part of
the cake is dealing with. And if we
don't see job gains, you know, broaden
out, then I would be worried that at
what point does that middle part of the
cake I mean, we talk about the upper and
the bottom There's that middle Do you
see them facing stress and cutting back
on consumption? And so, I'm concerned
and I'm not sure cutting rates actually
does anything in you know, it it it
takes a while and you'll need a bunch of
rate cuts. And the Fed is going to be
looking at the wealth effect. So, I
struggle a little bit more with that
slowdown scenario given how everything
is so well priced for a sort of
perfection.
>> Spoken like a true bond investor,
Premise for there of JP Morgan. Good to
see you as always. Coming up on the
program, we'll catch up with Lisa
Shalett of Morgan Stanley, Stephen Kirk
of the Council on Foreign Relations, Gil
Luria of D.A. Davidson, Mike Collins of
PIMCO. The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance just around the corner.
>> There is no doubt that there is health
and breadth in the market.
>> Underneath, there's quite a healthy
market.
>> Money doesn't want to leave the asset
class of equities.
>> When we look ahead, there are still red
flags to consider here.
>> There is still some room for
disappointment.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hoardern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning to our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now,
and your scores, the price action looks
like this. Equity futures pulling back,
the tech trade under just a little bit
of pressure, not too much, but a little
bit. We're down by 0.4 on the S&P. We're
down by 0.9 on the Nasdaq 100. In the
bond market set up like this going into
payrolls on twos, tens, and 30s. Twos
still around 4%, tens still around 450.
Heading into this, the jobs number later
on this morning, the guess is shaping up
as follows over on Wall Street. The
median in our survey, 88K,
the previous number, 115.
>> Yeah, the difficulty with the headline
number is we don't really know what the
break-even rate is. The US
pool of workers has been static or
potentially even shrinking around the
margins. As a result, some people saying
that even a zero number could be a
pretty normal the break-even rate. So, a
10 to 20,000 number would be good.
120,000 is amazing. We really have to
look at the components underneath. We
have to look at the unemployment rate,
we have to look at the wage growth to
get a sense of just how much heat there
is in this employment market.
>> play wait and see with the jobs market.
You're not seeing aggressive tightening
of the labor market that's leading to
really hot wages at the moment. The
Federal Reserve might be comfortable
with that, but if you look at this
market this market is just unbelievable.
We keep going through the numbers. The
fact that Alphabet can come out and
upsize an equity capital raise to $85
billion and the stock really doesn't
move relative to the rally we've seen
over the last 12 months. The fact that
we're going to see three of the biggest
IPOs we have ever seen and the debt
market showing no pushback whatsoever
really to these major issuers so far
this year. This market has been wide
open for these big players.
>> If you look at monetary policy through
the lens of the economy, it is pretty
much in line or neutral. It seems fair.
If you look at monetary policy, it
poised against capital markets, it looks
incredibly easy. It looks like it is not
even close to being restrictive based on
the gangbusters activity that we see
that's coming not from economic
robustness necessarily, but from what
people are expecting from artificial
intelligence in an existential race to
get capital ahead of what a lot of
people think will be a completely
transformative technology. So, how do
you understand valuations in that
sphere? How do you understand exactly
what the economy will do with this
overlay of technology? How do you
understand some of the numbers coming
out of the projections of trillions and
trillions of dollars of addressable
market and revenues that haven't come to
fruition? You know, a lot of people are
saying just close your eyes and buy.
>> Jim Zelter of Apollo, great conversation
yesterday on this program. We talked
about the potential for crowding out.
There's a lot of money being thrown at
this. We've been worried about the
deficit for a long, long time. No real
consequences to any of it because you
won't see major issuance like we have
done so far, either on the equity side
or on the debt side. And now it's not
just Treasury.
I think the numbers to really think
about here is you look at the issuance
coming from the hyperscalers. And if you
look at the capex this year, it's the
equivalent to the defense budget
of the US government. I think we've kind
of lost track of these numbers here. And
I know they're so large so you struggle
to internalize them, but the amount of
debt, the amount of paper that's being
issued at the moment, there is a
crowding out effect you need to
consider. And Jim's point was, and I
thought this was interesting, that it
might be more of a problem for the
sovereign than it is the corporate. And
that's something to track in the year
ahead.
>> TD Securities put out a report this
morning talking about the flows into
bond market funds over the past week.
And what you see is corporate debt funds
attracting the bulk in the United
States. Attracting the bulk of the
assets. You know who isn't? US
government funds. And in general,
government debt actually not seeing at
all any commensary inflows. People
aren't as interested in that. And guess
what? Some people are coming out and
saying, is the US government as credit
worthy as Nvidia? Do I think that they
actually can pay me back? Or do I think
Jensen Huang with his leather jackets
and promise of all this growth has a
better credit profile? And ultimately,
increasingly people are saying, we're
willing to pick up pennies above that
government rate because we think that
guy is more credit worthy.
>> Can I use my hands?
>> Please.
>> I use my hands. Okay. So, you've got
credit spreads are like this, super
skinny. And then they'll say to you, but
I like the all-in yield. So, the all-in
yield looks like that. And I'll say,
well, this is the risk-free. Why aren't
you like that? Why are you sort of
interested in this? Just go to that.
It's risk-free.
And then you really start to get into
this concept. Language is important.
Just how risk-free is the risk-free? Why
are they more interested in picking up
that than just taking that?
>> And this gets to the conversation that
we had initially about the US economy
and whether this monetary policy is easy
or restrictive. Because ultimately, yes,
this has to do with deficit. Yes, this
has to do with growth. But if this is a
an easy monetary policy, then you can
expect the long end of the yield curve,
that risk-free rate to go up quite
considerably because people are going to
have to reset their expectations for
inflation.
>> to play me quickly, didn't it? Forgive
us. We're down 0.4% of the S&P. We're
still close to all-time highs. Coming up
this hour, we'll catch up with Lisa
Shalett of Morgan Stanley. With tech
driving stocks lower, Gil Luria of DA
Davidson as cracks open up in the chip
trade. And Michael Collins of PGIM
previewing today's payrolls report. We
begin this hour with stocks struggling
to extend a 9-week winning streak. Lisa
Shalett of Morgan Stanley writing, now
is the time to evaluate where true
secular growth may be on relative sale.
Continue to reduce overbought
semiconductors favoring AI build out
diffusion over the most scarcity priced
epicenter. Lisa joins us now for more.
Lisa, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> That first line is really interesting.
True secular growth. Just how cyclical
do you think parts of this market
actually are?
>> I I think that the entire market is one
trade, and I think right now we're in
the boom part of the trade, which means
the entire thing is is cyclical.
And I would go further than that, that
one of the things we're pointing out to
folks is particularly in the
semiconductor
trade, what portion of it is price. So,
not only do you have to think about what
are normalized earnings here? What is
the fundamental underlying secular
growth rate here? So, how much volume
goes away, and how much pricing power
goes away? Cuz there's a lot of pricing
power that folks are mistaking for
productivity, you know, cuz pricing
right now for the semis are flowing
right to the bottom line. And folks are
looking at those margins and saying, "Oh
my god, you know, increase the long-run
forecast." And our view is so much of
this is not sustainable.
>> Do you think Broadcom then was just a
crack or red flag?
>> Uh
Uh probably the a red flag. It it is it
is it it's just a reminder that that
this these businesses are really really
hard. They're capital intensive, and and
you know, you can't you you know, you
you may be able to see your order book,
but you know, we're seeing
you know, all kinds of pressure on the
inputs, right? Commodity inputs. We're
seeing global commodity inflation.
So, I I I think I think it's a warning
flag.
>> I love this idea that pricing power
people are mistaking for productivity
gains. How much are we seeing that with
stock prices as well in the sense that
there has been a scarcity of paper for
so long that there was a power of equity
valuations that's getting now diluted to
some degree by some of the massive IPOs
that are coming to market.
>> Yeah, so you know, I mean this is one of
the things we've been talking about for
a long time and and this is where we
talk about PE valuations, right? And
we've said to folks, look, multiples
have peaked and you're probably going to
get compression. So that's why earnings
power is so important. You're not going
to get scarcity premium, right? Um so
uh you know, and and in addition, you
know, you guys talked at the top at the
top of this hour
uh about, you know, the movement of
capital. We're we're seeing, you know,
share repurchase, which used to be a
huge source of demand in this market,
and it was coming from the hyperscalers,
uh you know, begin to go away. So all of
these things, you know, kind of put
together, are are saying, you know, we
are now uh seeing an erosion of the
scarcity premium. We're seeing capital
uh that is, you know, uh much more
ample. It is not precious.
>> There is an issue right now that we keep
asking people about how much they're
selling
to try to buy into some of these IPOs.
Like what are they selling? Is it Is it
Bitcoin? Is it some of the non-tech
related names? What do you see?
>> Yeah, so it's so interesting, you know,
that you brought up the crypto trade. Um
you know, one of the hypotheses we've
had for a really long time and you know,
we've tried to illustrate this
analytically is the extent to which
Bitcoin has been a liquidity-oriented
asset, meaning when liquidity and
financial conditions are ample, it
rallies uh and when, you know, financial
conditions are beginning to tighten, it
pulls back. And and I think that what
you're seeing is all the folks who were
in crypto simply for the speculative
price appreciation are coming out and
they're chasing other things in the
equity market, in semis, in you know,
potentially accessing new deals.
>> Do you think it might be a sign of
capital constraints emerging
that we're seeing that move in in
crypto?
>> Yes, potentially. I think in to your
point, I think we're over the next 12 to
18 months, I think as everyone is
issuing debt, as everyone is issuing
stock, we're going to start to tighten
up here.
I also think, you know, this idea,
you know, that you raised Jonathan
about, you know, is it the risk-free
rate versus, you know, the credit
premium?
I'm not so sure here
that that
that the overall scarcity of capital
here doesn't cause that risk-free rate
to go up, right? And,
you know, folks need to to kind of care
about that cuz they could say, "Hey, I
don't care. I'm just playing for for the
corporate." But, hey, at the end of the
day,
everyone's cost of capital is based off
of that rate. So, um, you know,
>> Yeah, so you could have built on that.
Because you seem worried about the
equity piece and on the sovereign piece
as well.
>> Yes.
>> That's a difficult moment to be in.
>> It is unbelievably difficult. So,
another theme that we're talking about
with clients is not only, you know, to
have more realistic forward expectations
about both stocks and bonds vis-à-vis
history,
but the need because both of those asset
classes are now tied to these same exact
themes, and they are very positively
correlated, that you need other things
in your portfolio to be diversifiers.
So, it's why we've been so avid about
adding real estate, about adding other
real assets like commodities, energy
infrastructure. It's why we've, you
know, had some appetite for
alternatives.
Not all alternatives, but we've had an
appetite for alts
because you need that ballast in your
portfolio because stocks and bonds now
are being, you know driven so much by
the same exact trade.
>> We've been talking a lot about financial
market dynamics. When does the real
economy matter? I mean how much do you
actually even look at the jobless
numbers that the jobs numbers that come
out in about an hour and 20 minutes?
>> So look, I I I I think the real economy
has absolutely mattered, right? We are
in this unbelievably interesting moment
where this technology revolution is
different than the prior two. We are
transforming
the infrastructure and we're
transforming manufacturing. Data centers
are the manufacturing factories of our
future. That's a great thing in terms of
overall economic productivity, but it is
a cautionary thing. Because we
manufacturing and infrastructure are
cyclical businesses and this brings us
back to my very first point about look
for true secular growth. A lot of what
we're seeing in the market is not
sustainable secular growth. Things that
are growing 15 and 20% are not
sustainable in a world where global GDP
is growing five and maybe seven nominal.
It's just not. Right? It's just not.
>> Lisa, a lot to think about. We
appreciate it. Have a great weekend Lisa
of Morgan Stanley. Lisa, thank you.
Equity futures here pulling back to 0.4%
on the S&P with an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Ye-hara Hasmar, hi Ye-hara.
>> Hi John. Senator Elizabeth Warren
inviting CEO Jensen Huang to testify on
Capitol Hill next Thursday. Warren
reportedly asking Jensen to address the
chip maker's China business and US
export controls.
We are seeing Lululemon's shares
plunging three 13.3%
in the pre-market. The athleisure
company cutting its annual forecast due
to worsening performance in North
America. It's facing increasing
competition from the likes of Alo and
Dior, while also working to recover from
product missteps like its see-through
leggings.
And Airbnb CEO Brian Chesky is starting
an AI lab. So, he's telling us here at
Bloomberg it's in the early stages of
funding the new venture. Unlike its
rivals, Airbnb has not partnered with
OpenAI to create a plugin. And Chesky
has said ChatGPT's tools are not robust
enough. Burn. That's your Bloomberg
Brief, John.
>> Yeah, I appreciate you. Appreciate him
offering me a harley later this hour. Up
next on the program, winning one way or
the other.
>> I think as well I I will tell you they
called us and they said, "How about
stopping?" And I think you're going to
see things happen over there. We're
going to win one way or the other. It's
going to be militarily or that
>> I'm next we catch up with Stephen Cook
of the Council on a Foreign Relations.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
Equity futures look like this. We're
pulling back by 0.4% on the S&P 500 on
the NASDAQ 100 negative by one full
percentage point. A bit of weakness out
there. Some tech-related weakness going
into payrolls later this morning. Your
bond market looks like this. Twos, tens,
30s two shaping up as follows 4.04% just
about unchanged. And for crude, this is
really the first time we talked about
oil all morning so far. Crude's doing
nothing. Brent's at 95. WTI's at 93. We
were promised on April 17th the strait
would reopen. It did not. And here we
are with the 90s with no deal in sight
going into the weekend.
>> reason why we haven't mentioned it is
because a lot of people on markets have
tried to ignore it partly because they
just can't get their handle around
exactly what's going on, whether things
are improving or not. That isn't to say
it's not important. And actually
increasingly people say in the next few
weeks this will be one of the most
important stories if the straight does
not reopen because we are reaching tank
bottoms when it comes to some of the
inventories.
>> Getting closer and closer. How close? We
still don't know. Under surveillance
this morning winning one way or the
other.
>> I think as well I I will tell you they
called us and they said, "How about
stopping?" And I think you're going to
see things happen over there. It'd be
really nice if Lebanon could have some
peace. I spoke to Bibi Netanyahu about
that. We're going to win one way or the
other. It's going to be militarily or
I'm afraid
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Fighting between Israel and Hezbollah
hindering US-Iran peace talks with Iran
insisting on a cease-fire in Lebanon
before accepting a deal. Joining us now
Abeer Abu Omar from Dubai. Abeer,
welcome to the program. Can you frame
for us just what has happened in the
region over the last week because we
were looking at pictures coming from the
Kuwait airport and they looked
absolutely shocking. When we're told
there's a cease-fire, that's what we're
told here in the United States, what do
you see across the Gulf?
>> I mean you guys just said it, right? We
just don't know yet. And this is pretty
much the same picture we're seeing out
of the Gulf. But look, there are two
three sides to the story. There is the
Iran story, the Lebanon story, and what
we're hearing from President Trump. And
when it comes to Lebanon, Lebanon's
Hezbollah, that is the militia that is
backed by Iran in the southern part of
the country, came out and said that they
refused the deal that was reached
between Lebanese officials and Israeli
counterparts in Washington. Naim Qassem,
the head of that group, actually said
that the deal was absurd and that he
refuses to accept it and he refuses to
accept not attacking Israel as long as
Israel is attacking the southern part of
Lebanon. And these attacks are not just
just happening in the Gulf, right?
They're happening between Hezbollah and
Israel. Hezbollah attacking the northern
part of Israel, Israel on its own remit
attacking the southern part of Lebanon
and its villages. It is currently having
its deepest incursion in 25 years. We
spoke about that on your show before.
That still continues. Those hostilities
still continue. You mentioned Kuwait as
well. Now, Kuwait has mentioned that uh
Kuwait's Defense Ministry said that one
person was killed, several others have
been injured in those Iranian attacks
against its main airport. They also
suspended flights from the main airport
uh into the region and uh pretty much
the wider world. That those have not
opened uh yet. So, we still wait and
see. And oil prices not doing much as
investors really try to understand what
is happening and if a deal is in fact uh
imminent.
>> It's incredible how calm the market
actually is. Abeir, appreciate your
coverage and looking forward to work
over the next week or so with no deal in
sight right now. Just to see those
pictures of a drone going into the
airport into Kuwait. And you've all seen
the pictures of the damage done as well.
We were playing the video there just
moments ago. It's kind of incredible
that we're still at this stage where
we're talking about a ceasefire and
these things are happening.
>> Yeah. Kuwait is a country that is an
ally of the United States, houses troops
of the United States. Where is the red
line? We have heard from the president
the red line would be an injured uh
seriously injured or or killed US
service member. Again though, this is
really the key question. What if we
cross the line to not a ceasefire?
>> Steven Cook of the Council on Foreign
Relations writes in the following, "The
president is looking for a way out. He
seems to have lost interest. The
Iranians are also playing for time while
watching the US political clock." Steven
joins us now for more. Steven, welcome
to the program. Peace through strength.
It's a lesson
something that the Biden administration
didn't seem to understand and they were
criticized for it repeatedly by this
administration, too. Steven, do you
think the president and this
administration has forgotten that
lesson?
>> Well, it certainly seems clear that the
president is not interested in
escalation. He has threatened the
Iranians any number of times only to
back down. Uh and he has informed aides
that he has no intention to restart
active combat against the Iranians uh
unless an American soldier is killed. Um
that's not a good negotiating position.
That does By taking the gun off the
table, the Iranians know they can do
things like hit the Kuwait Airport. They
know that they can demand a full Israeli
withdrawal from Lebanon, which is
essentially stalling for time because
they know the Israelis are not going to
withdraw from Lebanon until Hezbollah is
disarmed.
So, I I think the president in some way
uh has lost his interest in this. He in
fact called negotiations with the
Iranians boring. Uh and um is is done.
Uh and so therefore the Iranians are
giving a are given a permission
structure to do the kinds of things that
they're doing.
>> So, is it that simple or is there some
other constraint around perhaps
escalating this conflict, whether it's
allies in the region that are saying,
"Please don't create another regional
all-out war?" Is it some of the pushback
from his own political party? Or is it
the idea that ammunition supplies are
limited in the United States and there
is an effort to rebuild?
>> I think those are all good points. Um uh
and particularly the allies in the
region, some of them in particular are
quite concerned about their energy
infrastructure and we are starting to
run low on uh on inventories, which will
cause more pain for the American people.
At the same time, the president cannot
talk about winning the conflict. Uh the
president cannot talk about uh all of
the damage he has done to Iranians when
to Iran when um we're looking at a
situation in which the Iranians uh
continue to enrich uranium, where the
Iranians have some control over the
Strait of Hormuz, and the Iranians can
threaten their neighbors like Kuwait at
will.
>> There is a huge political issue coming
up as we get to driving season and we as
we do approach
tank bottoms as we've heard from people
including Michael Werth of Chevron.
At what point do you expect the Congress
Congress and and the White House to
potentially restrict sales of US oil and
gas to places like Europe to try to keep
down the prices here in the United
States.
>> Well, we've already heard some calls to
that effect that said the United oil and
gas should not be exported to Europe. Of
course, that then creates very
significant
problems for the Europeans which will
also be a problem for the US economy.
So,
this is this kind of situation in which
every day is
we're getting closer to an agreement.
We're getting closer to an agreement
when we're in fact not getting to closer
to agreement and kicking the can down
the road is in fact making things worse.
And so the economic
situation will grow worse and worse as
time goes on with the president
unwilling to make any kind of decisive
decision. Either either he he finds
the will the political will to accept
the fact that
he will sign an agreement that empowers
the Iranians and somehow tries to spin
it or he'll have to escalate in order to
open the Strait of Hormuz.
>> And the phrase we often hear as well as
they even from the administration is
operation economic fury that the squeeze
we're putting on the Iranians will force
them to make concessions. What's your
view on that because we've had the
squeeze on the Iranians from an economic
angle for quite a while.
>> Yeah, you know, there is
one interpretation of what the president
is doing which is that he is hanging
tough and he believes that the blockade
will eventually collapse the Iranian
economy and that will lead ultimately to
the collapse of the Iranian regime. I I
missing from that analysis is the
willingness of the Iranian regime to
inflict pain on
the Iranian population. And that they
believe that they can outlast the
president who has
is looking at a political clock here in
the United States where the midterm
elections are coming up and
we're getting towards
that part of the
of the political season where it really
really matters what's happening in the
economy.
>> Steve, it's good to see you. As always,
Steven Cook there at the Council on
Foreign Relations.
Midterms still feels like a long long
time away.
And I understand why some people have
started to ignore this because the
market has as well. The market has
parked this. The market has parked this
because there is a belief that the
president doesn't want to re-engage in
hostilities. But the Iranians are also
aware of that committed to not
re-engaging in hostilities. And to
Steven Cook's point, he alluded to it,
that's emerging as a bit of a weak point
in negotiations.
>> That's that's sort of why you're seeing
some of these missiles flying into
places like the Kuwaiti airport because
they can and they can continue to attack
and have missiles fly without violation
of the ceasefire. The point there that
he was making though at the end in
response to your question, a really
important one, the idea that the Iranian
leadership is willing to inflict a lot
more pain, especially if they know that
the pain is going to get a lot more
seriously potentially problematic for
this president politically.
>> And they don't have the midterms coming
up. Let's put it that way. Coming up on
the program, Gil Luria of DA Davidson on
the cracks opening up in the chip
straight. From New York City, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
The jobs number is 60 minutes away. The
estimate in our survey, 88K. The
previous number, 115. Three month moving
average coming into this around 120. So,
things have started to pick up in this
economy based on the jobs number so far.
How tight is the labor market to Lisa's
point? You've got to look at
unemployment. You've got to look at
wages, and we'll do just that in about
60 minutes time. Equity features on the
S&P pulling back. The tech trade just
giving up a little bit. We're down by
1/4 percentage point on the Nasdaq 100.
Not just Broadcom, but maybe some other
red flags starting to appear in this
market.
>> are getting a little bit nervous about
the supply coming to market given that a
lot of it is starting to feel like it's
crowding out potentially other trades.
How much are people selling certain
things to try to get in on the SpaceX
IPO that's coming, and then the OpenAI
and Anthropic following that?
Ultimately, this is going to be a key
question, and I think Lisa Shalett
nailed it. At what point are these all
cyclical trades? And if you get them
kind of experiencing some weakness, if
you don't get an economy that really
moves in tandem with its strength.
>> It just feels like one big trade to Lisa
Shalett's point a little bit earlier. In
the bond market, twos, 10s, 30s going
into that jobs print. Yields this
morning unchanged around 4% on twos,
around 450 on 10s. This will set the
tone for the one part of the dual
mandate over the Federal Reserve. The
other report, which is on Wednesday, the
CPI report, will set the tone for the
other part of the dual mandate heading
into the Fed's meeting in just under 2
weeks time.
>> So, the expectation for today is the
unemployment rate stays at 4.3%. If it
moves down to 4.2%, it would be in
tandem with the expected CPI rate that
we would get next Wednesday of 4.2%.
Just to give you a sense of where we
are. It is very rare to see the
unemployment rate and the inflation rate
come in at the same, or the unemployment
rate being below.
Raising questions again, is this Fed
really restrictive or potentially
accommodative?
>> As we count it down to that jobs report
and CPI next week, of course, let's get
you some single names. Some morning
movers, Yihai Hasell. Hi, Yihai.
>> Hi, John. We are seeing Lululemon shares
absolutely plunging this morning down
11% in the premarket after it cut its
full year outlook uh pointing to
worsening trends across North America
and management saying that over the past
fat past few weeks it's seeing uh fewer
customers coming into stores. That's due
to controversy around some of its
see-through leggings and that's not
helping at a time when it's facing
growing competition from the likes of
Alo, Vuori, Rhone, uh and name just a
list of others coming after Lululemon.
Uh meanwhile, as you said, we are seeing
the chip trade falter again this
morning. Still feeling the effects after
Broadcom disappointed or as Lisa said,
maybe taking some chips off the table as
we get ready for the SpaceX and all
those other IPOs. But meanwhile, we are
seeing Micron, Intel, and Broadcom all
falling in the pre-market and the move
in Micron is notable since it scored a
major win. Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang
saying that that's one of the companies
that's been approved uh to supply the
advanced memory chips needed for its
Ruben system. And in a down market sour
on tech, I did manage to find some
positivity and it is in no other than
the space sector. Um in anticipation of
that SpaceX IPO, these stocks have seen
an incredible run-up. Rocket Lab up some
50% over the past month. AST Space
Mobile up over 60% in that time, John.
>> Yohai, thank you. Thank you for the
update on our radar this morning. The
payrolls report due out in just about an
hour. The median estimate in our survey
calling for 88,000 jobs added and the
unemployment rate to remain unchanged. A
slow down could hammer bond traders
betting on Fed rate hikes in the next 12
months. Elsewhere, Trump officials
clashing over potential loopholes in
China tech restrictions. A potential
shift in policy may have legally allowed
firms like Alibaba to buy Nvidia chips
overseas. The Commerce Department
insisting global bans remain in effect.
And Elon Musk joining the JP Morgan boss
Jamie Dimon pitching the historic SpaceX
IPO. Musk laying out plans for deploying
data centers into Earth's orbit.
>> We don't think this is a particularly
difficult thing to do. In fact, we think
it's easier than our communication
satellites. The Starlink
V3 communication satellite is an
incredibly complex machine. The AI data
center would be much simpler by
comparison.
>> SpaceX pricing is share sell at 135 per
share raising roughly 75 billion
dollars. Quite a scene in the last 24
hours at the new JP Morgan headquarters
over on Park Avenue to see Jamie Dimon.
The most well-known man in finance
pitching the biggest IPO we've ever seen
with the richest man on the planet to
send rockets into orbit and space
centers as well. Just pretty remarkable
pictures for this market, for this
economy.
>> This is incredibly rare. We just have to
put that out there for the top banker
arguably in the world or in certainly in
the United States to come out and stand
alongside Elon Musk and say, "This is a
good investment. This is a great
investment. This is the future." And
what it's doing is it's increasing
enthusiasm among retail investors,
wealthy individuals, and beyond that you
have some of the biggest
personalities in finance supporting
this. I was looking at some of the
commentary coming from family offices.
One, he's very prescient and a futurist
talking about Elon Musk. I'm a believer
in what he does. She also said that the
event short up confidence because it
quote showed a lot of very serious
people backing his venture. This is
unusual to see people really putting
this forward and there's an incentive to
do so because ultimately they've got a
lot of money at stake and they need to
sell a lot of paper coming into a market
at pretty high valuations.
>> this IPO goes well, sets up the next
IPO, the IPO after that, could set the
stage for a lot to happen in the next 12
months.
>> There is no incentive for bankers on
Wall Street right now to talk this down
unless they don't have a piece of it and
then you got Jeffries looking to take
the other side of it. But uh you know,
right now there is an incentive to get
this out and to celebrate this. And it
might end up being a real positive in
terms of what these companies promise.
There is a risk that this is one big
cyclical trade to Lisa Shalett point
that you can't see growth rates at this
pace, especially if you don't see the
rest of the economy gaining steam, and
that you might see some faltering
performances you typically do after big
IPOs in the initial years.
>> There are many incentives to keep this
running coming. That's for sure. This
running coming undone just a touch. The
massive run for semis taking a bit of a
breather as potential cracks emerge.
Broadcom leading the retreat adding to
losses after erasing over $280 billion
in market value. Gil Luria of DA
Davidson remaining neutral on the stock
while raising his price target. He
writes the following, "We found out how
on edge investors are about technology.
If the beat isn't big enough, the
consequences were severe. Value is
shifting quickly as the bottlenecks
emerge." Gil joins us now for more. Gil,
welcome. Lisa Shalett called it a bit of
a a bit of a red flag for these semis
trade. Do you consider it a red flag or
just a small crack?
>> Small crack. Let's not forget, Broadcom
just grew revenue 50%. It grew its AR
revenue a very good result, but
investors had now been trained
to expect a lot more than that cuz some
of the upside results from companies
like Intel, AMD, and Dell were so
spectacular
that investors just raised their
expectations too much. You're talking
about a cycle and and semis are always a
cycle. This is not any different. None
of us know how long the cycle is going
to last. We all speculate and estimate,
but it could last through next year and
it could last through 2030, and those
are very different outcomes. What we do
know is that different stocks are
trading differently on that cycle. I
would argue that companies like Intel or
even AMD and and many of the optical
stocks and the nuclear stocks are
trading as if the peak of the cycle is
until 2030,
where stocks like Nvidia and Micron are
trading like the peak of the cycle is
next year. So, that's where we see the
opportunity in in in betting on the ones
that the not a lot embedded in the
valuation. Nvidia 22 times, Micron at 10
times look a lot safer than Broadcom at
35, AMD at 40, Intel at 100 times. And
that's where we see the opportunities
because there is going to be a cycle. We
just don't know how long it's going to
last because the developments in AI are
so rapid that it's very hard to predict
when we get to peak functionality, when
we get to quicker adoption. So, we have
to play the cycle carefully by going to
the less demanding valuations.
>> There's also a degree of uncertainty,
Gil, about the addressable market and
that clearly was put on display with
SpaceX and some of their projections.
And maybe it's what's at stake with
Nvidia as well. I mean, is this an issue
of people saying that the peak might be
next year or is it people saying that
the run rate just cannot continue at the
pace that it has?
>> Yeah, two sides of the same coin. We
look at the hyperscalers, they're
spending most of their operating cash
flow. Google just went out and raised
$80 of capital. By the way, think of
that as coming on top of the capital
demand from SpaceX, Anthropic, and then
OpenAI. You're also have Google going
out for that much. Next you'll have
Amazon, Microsoft, and Meta going for
more capital. So, the capital demands on
the market are are impacting the stocks
already. And if the hyperscalers raise
that much money, they can continue to
raise their capex rates. They do see
this as a good return on investment. I
know that's a controversy. It's not for
them.
They are growing revenue at an
accelerating rate at the same margins.
That indicates a good return. To the
economy, you can see the return from the
run rate of OpenAI, Anthropic, and
Google's products. Those are products
that are being bought by consumers and
businesses. That's real economic value,
and right now we're at more of a hundred
than a hundred billion-dollar run rate.
So, there is return. We do expect these
hyperscalers to continue to spend, but
again, part of that's going to come with
more capital demand, which is going to
have even more of an impact on stocks as
they suck up the the demand
combined with those IPOs doing the same
thing. So, that's a lot of volatility
ahead from all these directions.
>> At what point do the semiconductors lose
pricing power? At what point do you have
some of these companies, and frankly,
their creditors pushing back and saying,
"I'm going to lend you $10," and then
they're going to charge you $20, and
then they're you're going to ask for $10
more, and then they're going to ask for
$20, and then they're going to ask for
$30, and then it's going to keep going
up. I mean, this is what it feels like
an auction house. At what point do a lot
of the hyperscalers say, "Enough. Stop
it already with the price increases." At
what point does that leave them
potentially with some capped margins?
>> The hyperscalers don't have that many
options. They are still by and large
relying on Nvidia chips almost entirely.
That makes Nvidia's a gross margin
around mid-70s relatively safe. Now,
they're going for alternatives. They're
trying to make their own chips with
Broadcom, and they're trying to ramp up
production at AMD, but those are still
at very early stages, and those are
coming in the mid-70s. So, right now,
those are the the only options. So, the
hyperscalers are not necessarily in a
great negotiating position in that
regard. So, that makes those semi
margins relatively stable. Even in
memory, the supply is just not there.
So, those companies can be in the high
seven in in the high 70s even. How long
that last again is a matter of how long
the cycle last, but right now it looks
like it could last through 28 29 2030,
which for most of our investors is their
investment time horizon and they can be
comfortable with that. But again, that
that's only if
AI continues to progress. If diffusion
of AI happens into companies that
generate productivity from that. If
consumers are willing to subscribe or
willing to accept ads in their chat.
Only if those things persist will the
hyperscalers continue to invest and keep
the margins high at those semi
companies.
>> I go. It's good to see you. Appreciate
your time as always. Go look at that.
FTI Davidson. In the meantime, is kind
of wealth transfer a major historic
wealth transfer from hyperscalers to
chips at the moment?
>> This feels like a kid playing their
grandparents against each other to raise
more money and then somebody on the
other side who's selling the the games
that they want just keeps jacking up the
prices cuz they know that they're
playing the the the grandparents about
who's going to love me more. I mean, at
a certain point you just wonder when
people are going to say, am I going to
really keep you giving me more money in
order for you to give more money to the
semiconductors? I don't know.
>> It's quite a scene, isn't it? We're down
1% on the Nasdaq this morning. Let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Yohara has more. Hi Yohara.
>> Hi John.
Jane Street is planning to build and
finance its own data center to keep up
with growing demand for compute power.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg the
market making firm is talking to
companies in the technology, crypto, and
finance industries about building a
facility.
President Donald Trump saying that
recently named director of national
intelligence will only serve in the role
temporarily. Trump's appointment of Bill
Pulte for the role earlier this week
drew bipartisan backlash. Pulte is also
remaining in his current role as
director of the Federal Housing Finance
Agency.
And President Trump saying he will
headline a rally in Washington on June
24th to mark the 250th anniversary of
the US. At least five of the of the nine
announced performers dropped out of the
event saying it was way more political
than they were led to believe. In a
post, the president writing, "We don't
want singers with no talent. We've told
them all to stay home." That's your
Bloomberg Brief, John.
>> I like how the 250th anniversary has
turned into a rally
for the president.
>> Well,
>> They're not even hiding anymore.
>> No, no. It's just It is what it is. I
mean,
I I don't know what to say about this
one.
>> Yohai, thank you. Appreciate it. Up next
on the program, stabilizing the labor
market.
>> The economy is
very strong. Job growth is strong.
Except for April, we have seen real wage
growth every month. Every month since
President Trump took office.
>> Up next, we'll catch you with Michael
Collins of PJM. Live from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
The jobs number in the next hour, the
estimate now survey 88,000.
That drops at 8:30 Eastern time.
That negative by 0.4. As things stand at
the close yesterday, still just about on
course for a 10th consecutive week of
gains. If we hold on to these numbers
this morning though, we'll undo that
nine-day nine-week winning streak. On
the Nasdaq 100 this morning, down by one
full percentage point. In the bond
market, shaping up as follows, two's and
30's. Yields look like this, just about
unchanged at 4% on two's. Under
Savannah's this morning, stabilizing the
labor market.
>> The economy is
very strong. job growth is strong,
except for April we have seen real wage
growth every month, every month since
President Trump took office. We are
creating jobs and importantly
Congressman, these are jobs for
Americans.
>> So here's the latest this morning,
payrolls dropping in less than 1 hour. A
survey calling for an increase of 88,000
jobs in May. Michael Collins of PIMCO
writing the labor market remains on
relatively stable footing. Other data
suggests an ongoing low churn
environment. Mike join us now for more.
Mike, welcome to the program buddy. It's
good to see you. Let's talk about this
jobs market. How hot are things right
now? Looking at this market it looks red
hot. When you look at the economy do you
see something different?
>> Yeah, the job market I wouldn't call it
red hot Jonathan. The job market has has
stabilized, right? The last couple of
quarters we've been talking about kind
of a slowly deteriorating
or moderating job market, but I think
you can kind of throw that narrative out
for now. It seems like things have
certainly stabilized.
Even breath as we look at, you know, job
gains across different sectors seems to
have improved a little bit.
Manufacturing sectors in general are
actually doing fairly well. A lot of
that is just riding the back of the big
AI CapEx boom as you discussed earlier
in your show. It seems like one big
trade, right? And then that's one thing
that really
does bother me. We saw this during the
housing bubble in '05 and '06 and '07
where the whole economy kind of rides on
one big sector. When you have so much
CapEx going into one area, you tend to
have so many companies kind of
channeling their business toward that.
And then the wealth effect of course is
also part of that same big trade.
>> Mike, do you think that the Fed has the
luxury of waiting to see how this plays
out? Does the new leadership have the
luxury of time?
>> Yeah, I mean I I think they're they're
they're just on hold uh indefinitely
right now, Jonathan. I think the hurdle
to to hike is a lot higher. I know more
and more
FOMC speakers are talking about maybe
considering a hike as the next move, but
but I think the hurdle for that is is is
very high. Uh I think ultimately the
next move will be a cut or two. It may
not be for a year though, right? So, I
think we're kind of stuck in this
interest rate. You look at rates right
now, as you mentioned, they're totally
unchanged today, which is really uh kind
of unusual. Uh interest rate volatility
has come down. We've really been stuck
right now in a very tight range across
the entire yield curve, and that's not a
bad environment for
uh you know, the economy because it's
the economy seems to be running pretty
well with rates at these levels. It's
not a bad environment for fixed income
investors, my clients, because they're
earning this these what I consider to
still be really high yields, really
attractive all-in yields uh for longer.
>> Is there any sign right now to you, at
least in capital markets, that monetary
policy is restrictive?
>> Yeah, I mean, that's So, the problem
with monetary policy, Lisa, right? It's
it's not restrictive for, you know, the
big companies that are borrowing money
like crazy. It's it's not restrictive
for uh wealthier people who benefit from
receiving the interest from these high
rates. But, man, it is restrictive for a
huge, growing percentage of the
population who are really struggling
with high interest rates, whether it's
on, you know, trying to get a mortgage
or on on car loans or or financing
big-ticket purchases. My analysts are
telling me every day that they're seeing
kind of cracks really starting to a form
and spread out through big-ticket items.
Think of, you know, RVs and things like
that. Uh and and, you know, you talked
about Lululemon earlier. Maybe that's
just an affordability
uh issue, but it is happening, right?
So, so when you think about the Fed,
like what is their real goal? You know,
is it to to manage the economy on
average, or is it to support, you know,
the 80% of people who are struggling
with high interest rates, right? And and
that's really the the challenge that
they have and why it's a very difficult
position for them to be in.
>> Would you change your view if you did
see the unemployment rate fall to 4.2%
today? I know it's not a base case if
many people, and the expectation is
4.3%, but if it were to be 4.2%, that
would be in line with the expected CPI
print next Wednesday, and it is very
unusual to see these two things come in
tandem. Would that be concerning to you?
>> You know, I you mean in terms of the Fed
considering to to hike rates and and
>> Needing to.
>> market heat overheating and inflation
going too high. I
I don't know. I mean, I I think in See,
again, the problem with the Fed, right?
They're They have a very blunt
instrument, right? The monetary policy
tool, and it really controls the demand
side, obviously much better than the
supply side. All the inflation we're
really seeing is supply
driven, right? It's not other than the
the AI cap ex thing, which is driving
prices higher on on a lot of specific
goods, um but but it's real it's really
a supply problem we have in the economy,
and I think that going to get worse. So,
by hiking rates,
the Fed actually um reduces the supply,
right? The because it makes the
financing of new equipment and new
uh manufacturing uh more expensive,
right? So, they're again, they're kind
of in a quandary here. Uh and we're not
seeing like the I'm looking at the wage
growth, right? More than the
unemployment rate, Lisa. If you
obviously as we discussed last month, if
you look at the hours worked times the
wage increases, they seem to be kind of
moderating a little bit. Like we're in a
disinflationary
wage growth environment right now. We've
gone from wages growing, you know, 5 6%
uh a year to about 3 and 1/2 now, and
that number has continued to come down.
So, that's a that's a really important
number to watch this morning.
>> If your argument's going to move on 10
basis points, you don't have much of an
argument to begin with, right, Mike?
>> Okay, fair point. 10% down 10 basis
point downside surprise in unemployment.
I It's not that that's It look, it's
it's not that that's sort of a historic
metric. That said,
the pace of the decline in the strength
that you're seeing in certain metrics of
the employment market in tandem with
where CPI is at is getting some people
nervous. I'm not saying it's definitely
going to happen. I'm not saying that
it's going to change the needle. I just
think it's an interesting metric to look
at.
>> One final question for Mike Collins.
Mike, I want to give you a shout out.
This is your last appearance on
Bloomberg Surveillance, so now you're
retiring. And I wanted to say thank you
to you, sir, because when I moved here
more than 10 years ago, you were so kind
to me. And I've learned so much from you
and the team, and I consider the work
that you did with Robert Tipp and Greg
Peters over the last decade in fixed
income just to be absolutely phenomenal.
I have one further ask of you. Mike, can
you just share some wisdom with us,
career lessons, the number one career
lesson in this fixed income market going
into a massive technological revolution
and all the change we're seeing taking
place?
>> Yeah, I mean, this is a really
interesting period to be living through,
right? Even as as my career is coming to
an end, it's something that I will
certainly be involved in for for decades
in terms of participating in this AI
revolution, right? And AI is is a great
tool for everybody, right? There were
stories on on Bloomberg this morning
about, you know, this you know, people
getting $60,000 a year, you know, of
income even though they're not working,
right? I mean, so productivity is a
miracle. It's like the the holy grail
for economists, right? And and it seems
like we are seeing and going to see some
productivity improvements.
Um, but, you know, we've seen this
before. I've seen this so many times
over my 40 years, Jonathan, when you
have this much investment, excessive
investment I would call it, in one area,
it becomes
such a huge part of the economy and it
drags a lot of companies and a lot of
businesses into that same big trade and
it doesn't end well, right? So I I I'm
very cautious and concerned about the
actual return on investment of all of
this giant cap backs. And again, we've
seen it so many times and and it
>> Yeah.
>> it doesn't work out well, right? So
>> I'm not cautious and concerned about
your retirement though, sir. Not in any
way, shape or form. Mike, appreciate
your time. Thank you for everything
you've done, for being a friend of this
program.
>> It's actually one of the healthiest
labor markets I've seen in decades.
>> The overall trend is in the right
direction.
>> I have a lot of optimism that we're
going to have a lot of ongoing demand
for human workers.
>> There isn't a lot of heat in the labor
market.
>> We think the labor market will remain
choppy.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your price action and the scores
look like this. Negative 0.5% on the S&P
pulling back just a touch on the Nasdaq
and a little bit more. We're down by one
full percentage point as some cracks
begin to emerge in the tech trade. We'll
get to that in just a moment. In the
bond market, twos, tens, 30s, yields
shaping up as follows going into
payrolls. Tens around 450, twos around
4%. The guess is this morning, the jobs
guesses are pretty elevated. We're
looking for a number close to 90,000 on
jobs. SocGen are punching 125. Some
momentum starting to build in this labor
market. Does it continue with this
report? This is a confusing labor market
and so you'll get a lot of people who
are going to be looking at the details
of this. We've talked about wage growth,
that's going to be key. We're talking
about uh the potential unemployment
rate, that also a potential gauge of
strength or slack. A real question also
going forward of the composition of
those jobs. Are they coming from
education? Are they coming from
healthcare? As Priya said, we're all
getting older, some of us getting older
faster than others and that we need to
be taken care of and at a certain point,
is that the right kind of job growth
that you want to be seeing?
>> Looking ahead to that payrolls report at
8:30 Eastern time and looking ahead to
this as well. A major IPO set to take
place in the next several months, SpaceX
coming to market. Jamie Dimon of JP
Morgan pitching this to investors and
we're starting to see some headwinds
building. Just a couple, not too many,
but the fact that S&P is sticking with
the seasoning period, not fast tracking
these mega IPOs one and two, the
headline that dropped earlier on this
morning, the Chinese based investors,
Hong Kong based investors won't be able
to invest in some of this just on the
margin, something to pay attention to.
>> Yeah, the ongoing bifurcation between
the US and China when it comes to their
tech stacks and how much there are going
to be barriers between the two. Had a
question about how much Chinese
companies can buy some of the US chips.
We've seen that with Nvidia as well as
US tech products. Look, there is a
bigger question here. Who is going to
finance this mass capital raise? Right
now with SpaceX, you see every banker
lining up to try to pitch it to their
clients, an increasing proportion of
retail clients that possibly are the
price setters of the future as Scott
Rubner of Citadel was saying. And you
see a question of what do you sell to
get into this? Do you sell Bitcoin? Do
you sell other tech names or do you sell
the rank and file of the economy that
are not hinged to this massive cyclical
bet? There is a clear anxiety there and
that is evidenced by how much of a sales
pitch is being made across Wall Street.
>> Mike Collins some word of wisdom, hey,
from PIMCO retiring. What did he say?
One big trade and these things never
usually end well.
Something to think about.
>> At the same time and pretty much
everybody says this, right? It will end,
but it might not end for a while. So, if
it's not going to end for a while, you
are going to get penalized for missing
out on it and this is the conundrum for
a lot of investors.
>> Coming up this hour, we catch up with
Nadia Lovell of UBS. With a 9-week
winning streak under pressure, Becky
Frankiewicz of Manpower Group expecting
a slower pace of job growth. And Jeff
Rosenberg of BlackRock reacting to the
payrolls print. We begin this hour as
investors pull back from the tech trade
heading into the latest jobs report.
Nadia Lovell of UBS writing, "Stay
positive, but diversified. We would like
the AI value chain, but we think
leadership broadens from a narrow set of
mega caps." Nadia joins us for more.
Nadia, good morning.
>> What drives the improvement in breadth?
>> I think you continue to see you know, as
you've been talking about the AI trade.
I wouldn't say that it's broken or any
sort of cracks. It's more of a scratch,
right? Particularly given what's
happened this week. But in terms of how
we're thinking about it, we continue to
think that diversification across AI
value chain is quite important. We've
we've been squarely focused on where the
bottlenecks are and invested in those
areas. So think about memory, think
about compute, think about networking,
think about software platform. And so,
despite the fact that you're seeing some
weakness today, we do think that
ultimately what's going to drive this
market higher is going to be continue to
be the AI trade.
>> The AI trade and the earnings that it's
created. We mentioned it earlier, but a
snark, but I'd love your reaction to it.
Whether we're just seeing a massive
wealth transfer from hyperscalers to the
chip players. And that's all the
earnings story has been so far. Is it
more than that?
>> It is more than that, right? Because the
demand is there. That's also driving the
pick up in the hyperscaler spending. I
mean, we know that this year that the
four largest hyperscalers have already
earmarked over $700 billion in capex. We
think that global AI capex is going to
be over $800 billion.
And then we think that that gets to
close to a trillion dollars. And even
those estimates might prove to be
conservative just given the capital
raises that we're seeing
this week and the announcements around
Alphabet and so forth. And so, we could
potentially see even more of those kind
of announcement coming from the rest of
the hyperscalers. And that's going to
push up the CapEx numbers even more. I
Again, there's there's there's
increasing demand from from the
enterprise. You're seeing AI move from
sort of an experiment so phase and more
to deployment. You're seeing more broad
race wide wide enterprise phase
deployment across the adoption. The
adoptions are going up. Depending on the
numbers that you look at, you could see
where you know, already 60% adoption
rate. Some numbers even put it close to
80% adoption rate. So, the fact is that
the monetization cycle has started.
We're still early in the phase of it.
So, it's not just what transfer, you
know, one CapEx is another person's
revenue. Eventually, there is
monetization that's already underway.
>> Yeah, what's paying for it right now? Is
it the labor market?
>> Um it I would say, you know, it's it's a
combination, right? A little bit on the
margin in terms of the we're seeing
already pull back in terms of hiring and
head count reduction at tech. It hasn't
hit the broad base economy yet. And so,
I I think what's paying for it right
now, of course, a lot of this is being
financed of on operations from cash
flows from operations. There's also now
capital markets are quite open. You
know, the constraint is not capital,
right? We're seeing that. We're seeing
that very even in the the debt rates
this year by the hyperscale,
oversubscribed. 10 times oversubscribed.
The constraint continues to be these
bottlenecks that I talked about earlier.
>> Is the excess and the ample liquidity
for some of these tech companies the
potential constraint for other companies
not related to this trend? In other
words, do you see clients that you're
recommending to them to sell other
assets, other other loans, other debt
instruments, other stocks of companies
not participating in this to finance the
purchases and investments in the Space
X's and Anthropic's and Open AI's of the
world?
>> What we have been really focused is
really in advising our
clients to manage concentration risk.
So, where they have, yes, you know, over
the last several years we've seen like
the Mac 7 has driven a
good portion in the appreciation in the
stock market and now you're seeing a
diversification again as I talked about
earlier across the AI value chain. So
what we've been advising clients is to
do making sure that they have exposure
diversified exposure to these
transformation innovation opportunities
and that includes AI. That also includes
electrification. It also includes
longevity that you talked about earlier.
So it is it is not it's not it's not
limited. So so my point is it's like the
the AI trade has and is and continues to
broaden out. I think that's an important
message that it's just not one or two
stocks anymore. I mean look at the
strong performance this year. It's it's
not the mag seven. It's the memory
memory stocks. It's the packaging
stocks. It's the networking stocks and
so forth. And so that's our key message
to clients. Diversification but exposure
to these secular growth trends are
important. They cannot be missed out.
These are not cyclical bursts, right?
The spending that's happened is not
cyclical. It's really structural and
it's an infrastructure story that
clients must have exposure to.
>> Job Fridays have changed so much,
haven't they? They really have. We just
don't talk about jobs on payrolls
Fridays. You join us every payrolls
Friday and the conversation has shifted
so much. We spend so much more time
talking about tech and AI.
>> start to talk about jobs when it
>> And how often do you mention payrolls?
>> When it starts impacting the labor
market in a more meaningful way, I'm
sure that will be the topic of
conversation.
>> how relevant is the number to this
market in your call?
>> Look, the in terms of of course the
outlook of the
of the Fed, it is important to us. The
number we of course are watching the
unemployment rate. It seems to be
stabilizing around 4.3 percent. So we're
also watching wage growth just given the
implications for inflation. I mean right
now we know that the market is pricing
in hikes from the Fed. We still think
that there's a possibility for a cut
this year, but of course inflation is
proving to be more sticky. The labor
market is important to the Fed call. If
we see any weakness in the labor market,
then that could cause the Fed to move
uh, this year. But we think that that,
you know, even though December is sort
of our official call for the next cut,
that could get pushed out into 2027.
>> I'm actually fascinated for this labor
market report. I'm excited to look at
the details, and the details have been
really interesting. I'm not just talking
about wage growth, I'm not just talking
about the unemployment rate. But if you
take a look at where the gains and
losses have come from, the tech sector
said last month it planned to eliminate
38,000 positions. That was the greatest
going back 2 years to August 2024.
You're seeing them say it's because of
artificial intelligence.
Do you expect this to be a leading
indicator of what we can look for in
other sectors, particularly the
white-collar areas that have been seeing
some job reductions on the margin as a
whole?
>> Maybe not at the magnitude that you're
seeing it in tech, but historically that
has been the case. That's where, you
know, technology gets adopted first,
right? And but you could argue, like,
you know, post-pandemic, like, some of
these tech, um, head counts got bloated,
right? So, I don't think it's all
AI-related. Some of it is just
normalization and right-sizing business.
Yes, like, AI is impacting tech. Um, but
if you look at the data so far, you're
not seeing any sort of wide-based impact
to the labor market. Is that the future
to come? On the margin, yes, I do think
that to some extent you will start to
see an impact in the in the labor market
in the years to come. But not but but
it's more gradual. It's not going to be
because at the end of the day, we're
still a consumer-driven economy. Someone
has to pay for spending, and that's the
consumer. So, it's a balancing act for
these companies as well of how much how
much do you reduce head count, and what
impact does that have of overall
consumer spending, which ultimately
drives the economy.
>> Apparently, the person doing the
spending right now is people's parents.
Did you see the stat yesterday? It's
amazing. Almost half of Americans rely
on their parents for financial support,
including 33% of Gen X. 33% of Gen X.
This came from Northwestern Mutual. 42%
of all Americans say they're financially
dependent on their parents. 20% of
Americans believe they will never be
independent.
>> Wow. The whole wealth transfer. That is
shocking, and sort of the, uh,
retirement accounts that are going to
their children. You lived in SoHo, you
should uh have experienced this
firsthand.
>> I did live in SoHo. And you know my
experience of living in SoHo, and it
actually speaks to a lot of things
happening right now.
>> Well, I mean, there is the sense
>> Okay, please, carry on.
>> So, when I used to take a day off, we
used to walk around SoHo, and I used to
see all these people that didn't look
like they had jobs. And I was like,
"What do all these people do? How do
they afford to live here? This is
absolutely ridiculous." And then I
thought about it. If you had massive
pools of capital, if you were really
wealthy, and you were supported by very,
very wealthy parents, there's probably
like three or four places on the planet,
if you were choosing a city, where you
would choose to live. Which is why we
have this massive concentration of
wealth in these cities, and within those
cities, an even bigger concentrated
wealth in certain parts. And then within
those cities, when you have certain
sporting events, that's why tickets are
absolutely sky-high, and it's $6,000 to
get in
just to watch some basketball next week.
>> I love getting a view into your morning
walks. And then just really get a sense
of your psychology during it.
>> He's sleeping all the time.
>> To be fair though, and not just the
hyper-wealthy, the the the progeny of of
hyper-wealthy families, but in general,
the younger generations don't have
access to some of the the basics that
older generations had, like home
ownership, unless they have parents
participating. So, this has become built
into the structure of a lot of families.
And with life planning, as I she kindly
said longevity, Nadia, rather than you
know, just getting old, you know, you
think about these things.
>> Nadia, it's good to see you. As always,
thank you. Nadia, love with that of UBS.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yohara has more. Hi,
Yohara.
>> Hi, Jon. White House officials are
clashing over potential loopholes in
China chip restrictions. Sources telling
us here at Bloomberg, officials are
looking into whether Chinese firms took
advantage of unclear policies to legally
buy servers outfitted with Nvidia's
advanced chips.
Anthropic is urging AI labs to consider
slowing development. The company is
warning that systems are advancing so
quickly, they may soon be able to
improve themselves without human
oversight.
And Elon Musk joined JP Morgan CEO Jamie
Dimon pitching the historic SpaceX IPO.
>> Why SpaceX public now? Cuz you had
choices, you didn't have to. Why now?
>> We're embarking on a massive new growth
phase and
we need capital FOR THAT.
>> OKAY.
OKAY, number two.
>> That's the another thing is that the
revenue like I I also feel pretty good
about like the revenue projections. Like
meaning like
like before like the revenue was a
little unstable.
>> SpaceX pricing its share sale at $135
per share to raise roughly $75 billion.
That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Yeah, Haera, thank you. Thanks for the
update. Up next, we'll get you some
morning calls plus Becky Quickwitz of
Man Group with payrolls just around the
corner. Live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
>> The last few months we've had data that
suggests that the weakness in the job
market late last year I think we can
sort of look through that. But we're
going to be looking for any signs that
GDP, uh, consumer spending, is that
broadening out beyond just AI and the
upper part of the key? And I think the
jobs market is the best high frequency
measure of that.
>> Fremesra of JP Morgan looking for
another read on the labor market 15
minutes away. Your scores into that look
like this. We're down by 0.5% on the S&P
and the Nasdaq down by 1.2. The losses
building in tech heading into the
weekend. Look out for that. In the bond
market, look out for this. Yields still
elevated. Two's still around four. 10's
still around 450. Heading into a Fed
meeting with a two-year rate trending
above the policy rate at the Federal
Reserve and some people saying that this
Fed, quite simply, is too easy and they
point to financial markets, not the
broader economy.
>> You know what's funny? We see this in
the market, but almost every bond
strategist we talk to says they expect
rates to go lower next and that the
Fed's bar to hike rates is so high,
they're just never going to get there.
So,
again, a little bit of a contradiction
there in terms of market activity and
some of what we're hearing in terms of
strategy.
>> They believe it's a communication
exercise. I believe that at the moment
it is a communication exercise to anchor
inflation expectations. That started
with Chairman Powell a few meetings ago.
The longer this goes on, though, it
becomes more than that. The first thing
you do is get rid of the easing bias and
slip into neutral and you look at the
data. You get through summer and if this
carries on, this momentum, and to your
point, you end up with a situation,
let's say we get to the fall.
We're in the fall and you've got
unemployment at four and you've got
inflation at four.
Then you've got a real conversation to
have.
>> Yeah, the tenths of a percentage point
matter at a certain point. If you start
having
that type of correlation, that is what
you see before hiking cycles that
usually don't end well. Will the Fed be
caught so offside that they have to hike
rates quickly and really create much
more of an economic issue?
>> but the persistence of it. That's what's
going to get them more and more nervous
as the months go by.
>> Rather than one blip and it some sort of
a disaster to play.
>> look, if you end up at 4.2 this morning
and everyone changes their call, you can
agree, but you didn't have an argument
to start with if your argument changes
on a 10 basis point move on the
unemployment rate.
>> To be fair, given the fact that my mind
changes every single day, I I think that
the data's been really confusing. So,
people have been flipping around because
it's been really inconclusive. Just a
fair argument for if you change your
call, it's okay. Come on, talk to us
about it.
>> And of course. Come on down, we'll be
very kind.
Everything's okay, 450 on cents. Let's
get you some morning calls. First up,
BTIG, downgrading Lulu to neutral,
seeing potential for trends to
deteriorate further. Elsewhere, JP
Morgan putting Qualcomm on its positive
catalyst watch citing positive
expectations for its data center
revenue. And the third and final call
from the team at Berenberg downgrading
CrowdStrike to hold citing limited
potential for upside. One of the blips
we've seen in tech early this week, not
just Broadcom, but that name too.
>> Yeah, coming out below expectations and
a lot of it they actually did beat. It's
just that people had incredibly raised
expectations after the mythos moment
hoping that CrowdStrike could benefit
you know in exponential ways and there
are constraints and that's what we saw.
>> It was a rare bright spot within
software stocks that have recovered
somewhat in the last month or so. Let's
talk about this jobs report. It's just
around the corner. Becky Frankiewicz of
Manpower Group writes in the following.
We expect continued job growth but at a
slower pace than earlier in the year.
The key signal for payrolls is whether
hiring broadens or stays concentrated in
a narrow set of roles. One of my
favorite guests to talk about the labor
market. Becky joins us now for more.
Becky, welcome to the program. Let's
talk about the broadening out. Are we
seeing some momentum? Have you got some
good news for us?
>> Yeah, so first I'd say we have a labor
market that looks stable but feels
tired. And why is that? Job postings are
up John, they're up 11% quarter over
quarter but the time to hire is very
very slow. As employers are taking their
time to make sure they choose the right
talent. One data point for you, last
year it took about 45 days from posting
to fill a job. This year year to date
it's 65 days. So employers are posting
jobs but taking their time on hiring.
And in terms of composition, um we're
actually seeing a change in the
underlying composition of the labor
market. I I heard Lisa mention health
care earlier. Health care has
traditionally carried the labor market.
It is still the number one job in
demand, registered nurses. It is down
50% year to date even though it's number
one. And we're seeing a broadening
underneath that particularly with retail
as we go into the summer months.
>> Becky, what does that mean to you in
terms of the broadening? Is that an
optimistic sign or does that indicate
just that there are areas that need to
at least just stay even based on
attrition?
>> Yeah, I would say I don't know if I'd go
as far as optimistic, Lisa. I would say
it's a stabilization sign. You don't
want to see one sector, whether it's
tech or healthcare, carrying the job
market. You want to see that quite
balanced and we've seen healthcare
disproportionately post pandemic carry
the labor market. And so I'm encouraged
to see retail sales people, retail
supervisors, and software developers,
country today.
And we're seeing AI that the new thing
and I I heard your former guest talk
about AI. AI now makes up 3% of the job
demand in our country and you might say
3% is quite small. That's almost 200,000
jobs, about equal, ironically, to the
number of registered nurses jobs that
are open in our country.
>> We'll get into that in just a minute. I
am curious though about something that
Nela Richardson was talking to us about
earlier this week about how there's
increasing number of part-time jobs.
There also are an increasing number of
jobs, like you mentioned, in the retail
sector, in the manufacturing sector that
are good jobs, but that are lower paying
than jobs that are not being created in
other sectors. Is that something that
you're seeing as well?
>> Yes, I think on both sides. So first you
talked about part-time. In part that's
being driven by the way that humans want
to work, particularly this younger
generation, that is curating their jobs.
And so 68% of Gen
A or sorry, Gen Z has a side hustle. And
so they have a regular job and then they
have a part-time job on the side. In
some cases, they may live in Soho like
John. In other cases, you know, it's
because they have interests that are
outside of their core job. So we are
seeing this increase in I'd say
flexibility in people designing their
jobs. And yes, I mean we are seeing a
growth in some manufacturing jobs, some
retail jobs, but I would say job growth
in what fuels our economy is always a
good thing.
>> Becky, let's Let's about the future and
the way you see things shaping up.
You're on the pulse of the jobs market
right now, but you've also got
experience within side corporate America
when you worked at Pepsi, too. How do
you think this is going to turn out?
You're looking at the technology and how
it's progressed. You know what the
incentives are for multinationals, big
institutions. Do you think we do go to
this terrible place where white-collar
layoffs really start to accelerate, or
do you see a different path?
>> Yeah, so I think we're going to see as
we have historically, I think we're
going to see introduction of new jobs.
Um I happened to be in Napa a few weeks
ago and forward design engineers were
all the talk. What in the world is a
forward design engineer? A brand new job
that we didn't hear about 6 weeks ago.
Um they're the people who translate
between the business and what the
business needs from tech and the actual
build of the tech. And so I think we
will see this transition in roles, like
what happens to software developers,
database architects are growing. So
we'll see a transition. The real
question, John, is the timing. Will it
be a seamless transition, or will there
be a gap that then creates job growth in
the future? That I don't know yet, but I
would anticipate the labor market will
will normalize, but we will see a change
in the underlying composition and I
think we're starting to see that already
with some of the growth in data center
jobs.
>> So let's circle back to the point that
you made about the 3% growth in
artificial intelligence-related jobs.
Are those jobs just directly taken from
other tech sectors? Like are are these
jobs that you're seeing come at the
expense of or do you see people
transferring into these areas from say
business services or other areas?
>> Yeah, so first it's 3% of the overall
job openings are AI-related and that's
up about 800% year-over-year. Um it's a
really big increase for 3%. Um yes, and
we are seeing these be adjacent to
programmers. So we're seeing a lot of
programmers shift themselves into data
architects, computer network specialist.
Okay, why are we seeing that exponential
growth? Um because they're working in
data centers. and by the way
construction managers are also up with
the growth of data centers and so data
centers are quite interesting for a
microcosm of what we might see to come
of infrastructure build, physical
operations, and then AI partnering. In
terms of people shifting in, again, I'd
say it's adjacent, Lisa,
but the tech companies would tell you we
don't have enough people with AI-related
skills.
>> Becky, appreciate the time. As always,
it's good to see you. Becky Frankiewicz
there of Manpower Group.
>> I think that's the rev light. I think
the hope for the younger generation. You
could see this reverse training. I've
heard about this. There's certain banks
now taking more of an interest in the
graduate class because they are much
more on top of this technology of the
people than the people some of the
people at least working inside the
institution.
>> You want the AI natives. You want them
to come in and help you create agents so
that I can uh a
get my new role as a news neural net.
That's what I think about it.
>> What is that?
>> It's it's a it's a neural net for for
news. That's what I think I should
rebrand as.
>> Okay.
>> And I think that it
>> Can you briefly describe what that might
look like in the future?
>> Yeah, it'll just be essentially you know
a map of all of these different
connections, these different ideas.
>> Okay.
>> And it can be just sort of blip around
and you can sort of input yours and then
it'll come together and there'll be my
face, the simulation of me.
>> you'll
>> speaking.
>> Speak.
>> This is important. This is important.
>> Okay. That's the future.
Thanks, Breanna.
>> Anytime.
>> It's hope for us all. Up next, the jobs
report. Stephanie Roth of Wolfe
Research, Jeff Rosenberg of BlackRock.
Bloomberg subscriber, does the software
upgrade to Breanna 2.0 make her less
bearish?
If you are going to do that neural net
thing you were talking about.
>> I don't know. It depends on what the
inputs are and frankly, it depends on my
feedback loop. If you're bearish, then
should I be bearish? If you're open AI,
if you're bearish, I'm bearish. If
you're, you know, cloud, maybe not.
>> Should you be bearish? Payrolls just
seconds away. Futures pulling back by
0.5% on the S&P. We're down by 0.2 on
the Nasdaq 100 with your jobs report.
Here's Mike McKee. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Well, it is a
bullish day.
To say the least. 172,000
jobs were created in the month of May.
That is significantly higher than last
month's
number, although actually we're revised
down a little bit 179. The 115 from last
month revised up to 179. Two-month
payroll net revision third 93,000 in
total. The unemployment rate is at 4.3%.
There is no change there. Change in
private payrolls 120,000.
Last month revised up to 177
from 123. And average hourly earnings up
3/10 during the month, 3.4%
for the year as a whole for the last 12
months. And weekly hours at 34.3
unchanged from before from the month
before. 61.8 for the labor force
participation rate same as before. So, a
lot more job creation than we
anticipated. No change in unemployment.
We'll take a look at some of the
categories that gained and lost in just
a moment.
>> Mike McKee, I'm not sure I should do the
market chat. You can guess where
everything is off the back of that.
Massive upside surprise on payrolls 172.
The estimate 88. Really, really nice
two-month payroll revision as well. Now
we're looking at 93,000.
Push that through this bond market.
Bring up the Treasury board. Twos, tens,
and 30s yields up across the curve. Twos
up by five basis points approaching
4.1%. Breaking back through 450 on tens.
Up by four basis points this morning.
Call it five. Push that into this, the
equity market. Futures shaping up as
follows. Already pulling back. We're
down by 0.6 now on the S&P. Negative by
1.3 on the Nasdaq 100. There's a couple
of different ways of looking at this if
you're the Federal Reserve. That
momentum maybe might maybe just on the
margin getting you start to think more
about a tighter labor market, but then
you look to the other data points,
unemployment and wages, nothing too
scary for this Federal Reserve based on
that alone.
>> No, based on that alone, this is exactly
in line. It's not that big of a
surprise. However, if you don't think
that 1 month of data really matters all
that much, take a look at the 3-month
average change, and what you see here is
that it's the biggest at 188,000 going
back to March of 2024. So, the rolling
average is increasing and would suggest
to a rejuvenation in the labor market
that could potentially give them pause.
If they are worried about a weakening
labor market, well, maybe they shouldn't
be because nothing in the data seems to
suggest that. Mike, you've got a second
look at things. What do you see?
>> Well, we saw strength in the services
sectors that that we have been seeing
the same number that that comes up every
time we see the the number of people who
are doing the health and social services
jobs rise significantly.
They were up by 35,000 during the month
in line with the average gain of about
38,000 that we have seen.
Health care services, ambulatory health
care services, the helping out of the
elderly up 26,000
while social assistance was up 12,000.
Financial activities, the big loser down
22,000 during the month and is down by
107,000
since the peak in May of 2025. So,
job you want to avoid there. Employment
in transportation and warehousing
essentially unchanged. It's up by about
1,000, although down by 92,000 since the
peak in February of 2025. Air
transportation, of course, caught up in
the war, etc., lost 9,000 jobs, and And
is basically because Spirit Airlines
went out of business. Little change over
the month in other industries including
construction, manufacturing, wholesale
trade. The number of manufacturing
payroll
rose by 7,000
compared to flat the month before. So,
not much change on the goods producing
side, but
services
pull pulling everything up. I know that
I was talking with Stephanie just before
we went on and she was worried that she
was going to be too high.
I don't think she has to worry about
that.
>> We'll get to her in just a second.
Michael, thank you. Michael McKee
breaking down a pretty fantastic jobs
report the headline level. If you're
just tuning in, welcome to the program.
172 the payrolls number this morning.
The estimate 88,000. That's above
everything we've been talking about
throughout this morning. The
three-month, two-month payroll revision
absolutely fantastic. The three-month
average, which is what Bramer was
talking about, 188 is sky-high, too. So,
for the Federal Reserve, think about
what they've been doing. We've had these
so-called insurance cuts. We had 75
basis points off them just last year.
And in the statement they put out, there
was this so-called easing bias. And what
that was really about was to signal to
this market that we're having a pause in
the easing cycle, not necessarily the
end of the cutting cycle. And what the
Federal Reserve is shifting to now, and
Fed officials have really got on board
with this, is they want to articulate a
more balanced reaction function. That
the possibility for a rate hike is equal
to the potential for a rate cut. And
based on these numbers, and based on the
CPI report that everybody is
anticipating next week,
you'd be very, very surprised if that
easing bias was still in there in two
weeks' time.
>> Yeah, it's almost
written out already by the markets. Matt
Luzzetti over at Deutsche Bank thought
of this in a really interesting way. He
put out a note a couple of weeks ago
saying, "Those insurance cuts, maybe
they took out too much insurance. And
maybe they need to give back some of
that insurance in the form of maybe one
or two more rate hikes. And that might
be where they ultimately migrate to in
their communication.
>> Stephanie Roth of Wolfe Research. John
just now from more. Stephanie, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Don't seem to have a labor market
problem. Is there an inflation problem
they need to respond to?
>> I don't think they necessarily need to
respond in a big way. I think of course
we have to be watching it, but it
doesn't it seem like inflation is
accelerating in a material way. Now we
have to of course keep an eye out on
does this labor market create
inflationary pressures and perhaps that
is you know the the very early start of
it. But before that becomes abundantly
clear, inflation will probably likely
start to cool a little bit. So it will
probably all work out from a timing
perspective such that the Fed can do
nothing. We'll see a labor market that's
quite strong and they can kind of wait
it out uh for a period of time. But of
course that you know that the data show
the labor market is continuing to to hum
along quite well even though AI is still
impacting some of those industries.
>> Well, let's stay on the potential price
pressure coming from the labor market
just for a moment. Lisa went straight to
the three-month average, which is pretty
punchy at 1.88 particularly when people
are telling us that the break-even rate
is closer to zero. So my question would
be just looking at that, how are we able
to push through that kind of job growth
without generating the wage growth
alongside it given that people are
telling us the break-even rate is closer
to zero?
>> Well, so I actually don't think the
break-even rate is closer to zero. Our
estimates suggest it's closer to 65,000.
You saw labor force growth in this uh
report was was in the '80s. So it's
possible that labor force growth is a
bit stronger than people think in terms
of what the steady state can actually
be, which then allows payrolls to to run
higher than that. Now of course it's
it's run even beyond that. Perhaps
payrolls are overstating to some extent.
Household survey has been a little bit
softer in recent months. So that's one
reason why the unemployment rate is kind
of been steady. I think the message from
the labor market is your steady state
break-even pace is the pace that you can
go without really generating inflation
in a big way
is probably in the 70-ish thousand
range, which is likely where the the
trend in payrolls is actually settling.
>> That makes sense and explains why we are
seeing a 4.3% unemployment rate wide
steady. It didn't go down, which some
people would wonder just looking at
these headline numbers. Are you seeing
specific areas that do seem to be
impacted by AI, and I'm looking at
financial services in particular. Again,
22,000 job decline in the financial
services industry, and you've seen it
really decline in terms of the total
head count there over the past couple of
months. Are there other areas that
you're seeing as particularly notable
for job losses within this?
>> So, you're certainly seeing it in
finance, you're seeing it in
information, although that you know,
there was a 2,000 decline this month, it
wasn't particularly strong or perfectly
large. One interesting dynamic that has
changed in the past couple of months is
that professional and business services
has stopped shedding jobs. That was a
big trend in in you know, much of last
year and into early this year, but that
seems to be sort of moving in the other
other direction. So, it seems that
perhaps they've done the job shedding
for now in that industry, and maybe
there that's going to be a little bit
more steady. What we're likely to see is
rolling periods of disruption in various
industries from AI. So, tech and finance
have certainly felt the brunt of it, but
the the positive AI story would be by
the time the next industries are
starting to to actually see disruption,
those industries are already done with
that. And you you end up with a period
of time where the disruption isn't all
happening at once, in which case the
labor market can continue sort of moving
along.
>> And it's moving along this morning,
172,000 against an estimate of 88K, some
really positive revisions, and a very
positive three-month moving average.
Mike McKee is back with us. Mike, you've
got another look at this one. What do
you see?
>> Well, there's something interesting
here, John. You were just talking about
what the level of unemployment and
employment should be given the fact that
the labor force is going down. Labor
force did rise a little bit, rose by
83,000 in the month of May. That's after
a negative 92,000 and negative 396,000
in the prior months, but basically we're
seeing very few people enter the labor
force, so you don't need as many people
getting jobs, and we see that in the
breakdown of where the unemployment rate
came in. Employment went up by 149,000
and unemployment went down by 66,000.
Neither of those are huge numbers,
although the employment numbers reverse
a string of drops. And so the
unemployment rate falls basically stays
the same basically because there wasn't
much movement on the household side. And
the one last point that I'd make here is
if you look at the good side of the
report, in almost every category you see
some declines in non-durable goods in
durable goods except for construction.
You're seeing people lose jobs and so it
is
it is really sort of a shift from where
we had been before and we're seeing the
services side come up now.
>> Mike, thank you, buddy. Appreciate
Appreciate it as always. The two-year at
the moment up by seven basis points this
morning. The two-year at about 4.12.
Want to bring in Jeff Rosenberg of
BlackRock into the conversation as well.
Jeff, you look at these numbers and the
numbers we're anticipating next week as
well, Jeff. Are we set for a hawkish
turn from this Federal Reserve?
>> Well, we are and we have been for some
time as as the data's accelerated. You
know, the first we had the acceleration
on the inflation side and really more
than the acceleration it was just the
lack of the deceleration on the
inflation story. You know, this morning
and and I think you guys have honed in
on the on the key number, the the
three-month average printing at 188, the
combination of today's upside surprise
plus the revisions. You're you're
changing the narrative on the labor
side. So the combination, the old story
was a weaker labor market, an
expectation of falling inflation and we
need these insurance cuts and as as you
were highlighting Matt Lazear's point,
you know, maybe they took out too much
insurance. Well, that's kind of after
the fact because the facts have changed.
So the facts that have changing here is
a stronger labor market, a fourth
supply-side shock in the form of the
war,
and its impact on oil inflation. And
absolutely, we we've changed the
narrative that's already been in the
price. It's going to continue as you're
seeing in the markets here today.
And and that hawkish turn, as you
highlighted, you know, we're going to
validate that, you know, with the with
the change in the language
in the June FOMC.
>> Jeff, forgive me, but shifting to
neutral doesn't really feel hawkish.
Moving to hike and then hike again and
hike again feels hawkish. Are we going
to get that kind of action from this
Fed? And how high is the bar for that?
>> Well, the bar for June is high in that
this Fed, you know, wants to move
slowly, typically tends to move slowly.
And the issue that we're going to have
from the Fed perspective is is managing
the the the dispersion within the
committee. So, that you're not going to
get that clear signal, but the direction
of travel is clearly there. The question
is, will the Fed get out ahead of where
markets are pricing, or are markets
going to try to push the Fed? So far,
it's the latter. The markets are out
ahead of the Fed. And really what we're
seeing here, likely to see here, I
should say, in in the June FOMC is is
the Fed playing catch-up.
>> Well, and Jeff, this is the key point
that a lot of people are making is that
the Fed's behind and the market's kind
of leading the charge. And they're
looking at the data and they're saying
that there is enough
labor market tightness to foster
inflation going forward in addition to
supply shocks and this existential spend
on AI. Would you bet with the market or
would you bet that the Fed has too high
of a bar to actually hike rates based on
who's what the composition of the Fed is
and frankly, what the drivers of
inflation really are?
>> Yeah, you know, we're we're right on the
precipice of pricing in a full hike for
this year. So, that that probably feels
about right given where the data is
relative to where how lag the Fed is and
not wanting to be in a hurry for many
reasons
to move towards towards a hike and if
they can just hang on to the inflation
data not aggressively re-accelerating
upwards and they're going to need a
little bit of help there and they're
getting it from the oil price situation.
You know, I don't think they're going to
be in a hurry to to raise rates and so
pricing in more than that, you know,
unlikely. Other point here and John
Jonathan usually say, you know, the
first reaction is not the last reaction.
There are some kind of one-offs in this
labor report that is probably
overstating that headline. The market's
going to react to the headline but give
it some time to look through. You got a
government number in there that looks
pretty outsized. a leisure and
hospitality number that looks a little
outsized. No doubt this is a strong
report but when the dust settles it it's
really going to be about the gradual
strengthening in the labor market and
can you see this kind of stabilization
in inflation that keeps the Fed from
having to move towards a more aggressive
tightening phase. I think that's where
we'll get to but again it depends on,
you know, particularly that path of
inflation.
>> Hey Jeff, appreciate it as always. Jeff
Rosenberg there of BlackRock. The first
move is not always the right move. It's
what we often say. This is the first
move. You have to wrap across the curve
particularly the front end. We're up by
basis points on twos 412. See that move
in fixed income you expect the following
move in equities just to pull back on
the S&P on the Nasdaq and the Russell
this morning and that's what you see off
the back of a really punchy payrolls
report.
>> To Jeff's point though when you like
take a look at some of the details
government jobs increased at the fastest
pace going back to 2024 at 52,000.
I guess that Elon Musk is distracted so
Doge is getting reversed. Real question
here about the sustainability of that.
Also when you talk about leisure and
hospitality 70,000 jobs added. Yes, it
is heading into the travel season and I
guess the wealth effect is in strong
force because everyone is going to
hotels and flying on planes and needs to
get beefed out on from that perspective.
But again, are these sustainable
numbers, you know, or are they
potentially padding things out a bit?
>> Final word, Stephanie. At least it's not
healthcare anymore. Not just healthcare.
>> Yeah, at least it's more of the cyclical
sector.
And that's what we were expecting to see
this year is the cyclical sectors were
really held back last year by
tariff-related uncertainty.
Travel, ironically, was one of the big
sectors because there's just so much
economic uncertainty out there. You
know, that seems to be reversing.
To Jeff's point, it's the data are
probably stronger than the actual trend
pace. There's seasonals that tend to
happen this time of year. You tend to
see that in hospitality. You tend to see
that in local government. So, and these
are the the areas where you saw some of
the biggest gains. So, I wouldn't take
this number at face value and
extrapolate that into the future and how
far that's going to bring down the
unemployment rate. But, I think the
message here is that the labor market is
holding up fairly well. The AI story is
probably not one that's going to be an
issue for a lot longer than people had
anticipated. And at this point, the
labor market's not generating inflation.
So, so far the Fed can just wait it out
and see kind of the the the path of the
data in future months. The inflation
data's not, you know, on their side, but
for now, you know, the Fed can certainly
be in wait-and-see mode.
>> Stephanie, thank you. Stephanie Roth of
Wolfe Research. Big headline just
crossed on the Bloomberg terminal. Now
fully pricing a quarter point hike
by year end.
>> Yeah, markets are looking at this and
they're running away with it. The
leisure and hospitality issue, I just
want to point out this is one of the
reasons why it's important to listen to
some of the airline CEOs have been
saying that demand is just sky-high and
they're continuing to see it and people
absorbing price increases much more than
they had expected. You're seeing that in
the hiring rates, too, because if the
are going to are increasing, well, they
got to beef up their staff to to meet
it. Gives you a sense of of what's
building in this economy.
>> Was that analysis or a promo for this
weekend?
>> a promo for this weekend.
>> to do the promo for this weekend?
>> I'm going to. For Silta to talk about
airlines.
>> awful. Sounds awful.
Goes to Rio to talk about airlines.
>> Well, hold on a second. I'm going for a
couple days over the weekend to talk to
the airline CEOs. The reason why I find
them interesting, though, is cuz they're
the best real-time economists of what
travelers are doing. I think that's
really interesting.
>> what you tell management when you pitch
this trip to Rio?
>> You think I'm just going to be on the
beach?
>> Who are you speaking to this weekend?
>> I'm speaking with the Delta president.
I'm speaking with the CEO of United,
Scott Kirby. I'm speaking to the COO of
Southwest on surveillance on Monday.
Don't miss that.
>> Okay.
>> As well as JetBlue's Joanna Geraghty.
So, it'll be interesting to hear about
the different tiers of airlines. I think
that that's enough.
>> I'm pleased I've justified your trip.
Brahma off to Brazil.
>> junket? I actually think it's
interesting.
>> it Does it feel like a junket?
>> not feel like a junket.
>> Sounds like a junket.
>> No No judgment here.
>> You think so? Over my weekend?
>> Might be a junket.
>> Really?
>> you an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg Brief.
Yohara Hasmar, hey Yohara.
>> Hi John. Just to recap the jobs report,
nonfarm payrolls blew past expectations
for May. 172,000
jobs added versus estimates of 88,000.
This marks the third consecutive month
of gains with the unemployment rate
holding steady at 4.3%.
The Trump administration is exploring
whether the government should take
ownership stakes in leading AI companies
like OpenAI. Senior US officials
reportedly held talks with the major
companies about potentially transferring
shares to the government voluntarily.
And President Trump will be the first
sitting US president to attend an NBA
finals game. Trump confirming yesterday
he'll attend game three of the
Knicks-Spurs series at Madison Square
Garden Monday night. New York City Mayor
Eric Adams, Donnie, is also planning to
attend. That's your Bloomberg Brief,
John.
>> Yohara, thank you. Appreciate the
update. Up next on the program, we'll
set you up for the day and the week
ahead. Plus, Yohara is going to come
back and break down some morning movers
from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
>> Doesn't it seem like inflation is
accelerating in a material way? Now, we
have to of course keep an eye out on
does this labor market create
inflationary pressures and perhaps that
is, you know, the the very early start
of it. The data show the labor market is
continuing to to hum along quite well.
>> Really impressive. That was Stephanie
Roth there of Wolfe Research. Not just
Stephanie, but the data. The data coming
in much stronger than expected. 172,000
on payrolls. The estimate was 88. Yields
up at the front end of the curve
bringing equities down just a bit. S&P
500 futures negative by 0.6%.
Let's get you some single names, some
morning movers. Yahara has more. Hi
Yahara.
>> Hi John. We are seeing the chip trade
falter this morning. Still feeling the
effects after Broadcom disappointed. So,
you're seeing names like Nvidia, Intel,
and Micron all lower. And Micron is
notable since it just scored a major win
after Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang said it
was one of the companies approved to
supply its advanced memory chips for the
new Reuben AI system. And yet, losses
are mounting on that name now down 4 and
1/2% in the pre-market. Also in the red
is Lululemon. Shares are plunging 12 and
1/4% in the pre-market after the
athletic wear maker cut its full year
outlook pointing to worsening trends in
North America. And management saying
that over the past few weeks it's seen
traffic slow. And that's due to
controversy around some of its leggings
being see-through. And we end on
DocuSign. Those shares are also in the
red. Well, down nearly 5% in the
pre-market. It gave an outlook that was
largely in line with expectations, but
not enough as these software stocks try
to stage a comeback after they their
AI-fueled sell-off. John.
>> Yahara, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Appreciate it. Have a nice
weekend. Promo time. A new addition to
the lineup here at Bloomberg TV. Looking
forward to this later this afternoon,
Bloomberg money kicking off this
afternoon with Scarlet Fu and TK, two of
the very best here at Bloomberg.
Scarlet, good morning. It's good to see
you.
>> Good morning. Nice to see you guys.
>> What's coming up later this afternoon?
>> So, we're going to talk with Liz Ann
Sonders of Charles Schwab and Gabriela
Santos of JP Morgan Asset Management.
And basically what we're doing is taking
the daily news flow and folding it into
the larger trends and exploring what it
means for your personal savings and your
retirement. And in the case of today's
jobs report, great, people have jobs or
there were growing jobs, but wages are
not keeping pace with inflation. And
we're going to see that with the CPI
report next week. So, the challenges
around building your portfolio and
building out your retirement around
that. In addition, we're going to talk
about, you know, SpaceX because a lot of
employees will come into a lot of wealth
very, very quickly. Will they use AI
bots to manage their wealth or will they
band together and demand lower fees from
human advisors? That's what we're seeing
already.
>> Yeah, that's going to be uh something
fascinating. This idea of are we all
just going to go to bots? I mean, is
that something that you keep hearing
about the way that AI is transforming
asset management?
>> It is and certainly it's democratizing
wealth management
as an industry to make it more
accessible to everyone, but at the high
end, people are always going to want
that high-touch experience and that
high-touch service. People want to talk
to people and wealth advisors in many
ways are kind of like therapists.
>> That's true. They are.
>> No, they need to
>> Calm down and stay invested.
>> Exactly. Walk you through, it's okay,
don't worry, you don't need to panic.
>> Bedtime stories to help you sleep well
at night. I know.
>> I'm thinking is people like to talk to
people. Depends which people. It depends
who you're talking about. I've, you
know, I'm just thinking that
>> If you're doing your job well, then your
clients want to talk to you. How about
that?
>> Some surveillance advice, hide the tank
later on this afternoon. Just hide the
tank.
>> Hide the tank.
>> Okay. Yeah. It's you'll figure it out
pretty quick.
>> Whoa, okay.
>> This is very inside baseball, but I
appreciate this.
>> Hide the tank. Scarlet Fu, thank you.
Appreciate it. Bloomberg money coming up
a little bit later, 12:00 p.m. Eastern
time alongside TK. Do not miss that on
Bloomberg TV. Coming up on Monday
Cameron Dawson of New Edge Wealth, Chris
Harvey of CIBC, the former US Defense
Secretary Mark Esper, Abby Joseph of JP
Morgan following a punchy payrolls
report here stateside from New York City
this morning. Good morning. Thank you
for choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.